Norwegian Ninja (Norwegian: Kommandør Treholt & ninjatroppen) is a 2010 Norwegian action comedy film, directed by Thomas Cappelen Malling. The film, based on a 2006 book, presents real-life espionage-convicted Arne Treholt as the leader of a ninja group saving Norway during the Cold War and stars Mads Ousdal as Treholt.
The film is loosely based on the story of Norwegian politician and diplomat Arne Treholt, who in 1985 was convicted of high treason and espionage on behalf of the Soviet Union and Iraq. In 2006, Thomas Cappelen Malling wrote the book Ninjateknikk II. Usynlighet i strid 1978 ("Ninja Technique II: Invisibility in combat 1978"). The book was presented as a military manual written by Treholt in 1978. It achieved a certain cult status, and was considered a success at 5,000 units sold.
The story, set during the Cold War, involves the conflict between the Norwegian ninjas, King Olav V's secret army tasked to maintain Norway's independence, and a clandestine stay-behind group who carry out false flag operations that get blamed on Communists.
In December 2008 it was announced that the Norwegian Film Institute would support a film made by Cappelen Malling with NOK 10.5 million, in spite of the fact that the author had no previous experience from the movie industry. The book forms the basis for the film, where an alternative universe-Treholt leads a group of ninjas set up by then-King Olav V to combat the Soviets. The original working title was Nytt norsk håp ("New Norwegian Hope"), and the total budget was NOK 19 million. The producers describe the story as taking place directly before Treholt's arrest in 1984, presenting "the true story of how Commander Arne Treholt and his Ninja Force saved Norway during the Cold War." Cappelen Malling himself describes the film as "alternative history", but only in the sense that all history is alternative. Treholt himself has allegedly given his consent to both the book and the movie.
The absurd premise of the film secured a great deal of media attention for it ahead of its release. Aftenposten, in January 2010, predicted it would be one of the most absurd works of Norwegian cinema. Verdens Gang quoted producer Eric Vogel, saying "Something like this has never been made in Norway before. Or in the world, as far as I know!" They also interviewed Mads Ousdal, who portrayed Treholt in the film, describing the role as very different from anything he had done previously. Comedian Trond Viggo Torgersen played the part of King Olav V.
Although the movie was not a big box-office success, it did receive some very good reviews. J.S. Marcus of Wall Street Journal: "Hilarious and menacing, absurd and insightful, and an accomplished work of genre film making that authoritatively upends the cold-war spy thriller." 
Recent Norwegian history and one of the nation's most notorious scandals are given a playfully surreal spin in this satiric comedy from filmmaker Thomas Cappelen Malling. Arne Treholt was a celebrated Norwegian diplomat who in 1984 found himself disgraced when he was accused of selling state secrets to the highest bidder. Treholt was found guilty and spent eight years behind bars before he was pardoned and freed. Treholt has always insisted he was innocent of all charges, and in Kommandor Treholt & Ninjatroppen, Malling imagines a scenario in which Treholt (played by Mads Ousdal) is a ninja warrior with powers of invisibility who leads a secret fighting force protecting their homeland against Cold War foes, represented by the sinister Meyer (Jon Oigarden), whose sympathies are clearly with the United States. As Treholt and Meyer wage a private war for control of Norway's hearts and minds, Treholt tries to turn slobby slacker Humla (Amund Maarud) into a suitable second-in-command. Norwegian Ninja received its American premiere at the American Film Institute's 2010 AFI Fest. ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 80&nbsp;mins
