Journey 2: The Mysterious Island (also known as Journey to the Mysterious Island) is a 2012 American 3D science fiction adventure film directed by Brad Peyton. It is the second film in the Journey film series and the sequel to Journey to the Center of the Earth. Following the first film, the sequel is based on another Jules Verne novel, this time The Mysterious Island.
The film stars Dwayne Johnson, Michael Caine, Josh Hutcherson, Vanessa Hudgens, Luis Guzmán, and Kristin Davis. The story was written by Richard Outten, Brian Gunn and Mark Gunn, and the screenplay by Brian and Mark Gunn.
Journey 2: The Mysterious Island was released on February 10, 2012 to mixed reviews, but became a box office success with a worldwide gross of over $325 million, surpassing its predecessor.
It's been four years since the events of the first movie. 17-year-old Sean Anderson (Josh Hutcherson) is caught by the police after a brief chase on his dirtbike which ended with him driving into a swimming pool while trying to evade them. Minutes later, his stepfather Hank (Dwayne Johnson) arrives where a police officer (Stephen Caudill) who is friends with Hank tells him that Sean had broken into a satellite research center. The police officer also tells Hank that he has convinced the owners of the swimming pool not to press charges. Hank takes Sean home where his mother Liz (Kristin Davis) is not pleased with his actions, or the fact that he and Hank do not get along well.
Hank discovers that Sean had broken into a satellite research center in order to boost the signal of a code he'd received by someone he suspects is Alexander Anderson, Sean's grandfather who had been missing for a year. Wanting to bond with his stepson the next day, Hank helps Sean decipher the code of Verne characters which lead to three books: Treasure Island, Gulliver's Travels, and Verne's own Mysterious Island. Using the book's individual island maps, Hank suspects they are books of the same island and uses a back light in order to make them all one completed land mass with the coordinates to its location. Hank manages to convince Liz to let the both of them go in search of the island.
They arrive in Palau where their need of transportation to this dangerous part of the ocean attracts an American helicopter tourism guide Gabato (Luis Guzman) and his daughter Kailani (Vanessa Hudgens) who Sean develops an immediate crush on. They agree to fly them out to the island for $2,000, but the helicopter gets caught in major vortex winds and they crash, waking up on the island.
Crossing into the island, they discover one of the laws of the Mysterious Island that all things big are small and all things small are gigantic (inspiring Gulliver's Travels). The crew find tiny elephants and giant butterflies which are their first creatures to discover on the island. The group decided to explore further into the island.
After coming across a massive frill-necked lizard when they come across her egg clutch, they are rescued by Alexander (Michael Caine) who takes them to a large hut he'd built from the wreckage of the ship that brought him to the island, the Blue-Eyed Lucy. He has a radio, but due to the positioning of the communications satellite it would be two weeks before they could call for help.
The next morning, Alexander leads the party to the lost city of Atlantis which is usually submerged into the ocean, and he had calculated that the island sinks once every 140 years. However, the evidence that Hank sees leads him to prove that the calculations are wrong and the island will sink in a couple of days. Their only means of salvation seems to be the legendary Nautilus (Captain Nemo's submarine) hidden somewhere on the island. Kailani enters Nemo's crypt and finds his journal, which has the whereabouts of the ship just off one of the coasts in a cave. They decided to go to that cave through the heart of the island.
They mount giant bees in order to fly over a high ridge and make up time, but encounter large birds that try to devour the bees. After saving Kailani's life, Sean crashes and dislocates his ankle. Hank and Alexander later patches up Sean's ankle the best he can.
The next morning, the water has risen exponentially and Hank deduces that the island will sink in a matter of hours, not days. Gabato is missing, having gone toward the island's golden volcano (which was the inspiration for Treasure Island) in search for the funds to give his daughter a better life. While Alexander and Kailani go after him, Sean and Hank head for the coast. The group is separated; Sean and Hank will go look for the Nautilus, while Kailani and Alexander search for Gabato.
Due to the water rising, Sean and Hank make makeshift oxygen tanks and dive down fifty feet in order to obtain the Nautilus and are nearly killed by a giant electric eel. They are unable to power the ship however because the vessel's batteries being 140 years old have run down. They find a way to power the submarine from the electric eel.
Meanwhile, Kailani and Alexander find Gabato and convince him to escape with them instead of trying for the golden volcano. They head toward the shore as the island begins to suddenly and violently rip itself apart. The golden volcano starts to erupt violently, pouring lava flows all over the area. Highly flammable lava bombs were thrown from the golden volcano into the air and suddenly landed on the sinking island's debris. The high flammability meant that whatever the lava bomb touched, it can easily catch fire because of the lava that can easily pour out of the lava bomb. Sean and Hank use a harpoon to get an electrical jump start from the eel swarming around them and they are able to power the machine, just in time to pick up the others who had fallen into the water. Gabato pilots the submarine out of harm's way while Hank and Sean fire torpedoes into the path of falling island debris. As they clear the danger, Alexander finally calls Hank by his preferred name, as up to that point he only called him "Henry" and the family makes up. And Kailani finally kisses Sean for his bravery.
Six months later, Kailani and Gabato are well off, Gabato now running the most popular tourist attraction on Palau, providing tours aboard the Nautilus. Kailani goes to visit Sean on his birthday. While they are celebrating, Alexander shows up with a book for Sean's birthday present. Sean opens it to find Verne's From the Earth to the Moon, Alexander's suggestion for the next adventure to which Liz protests. Hank replies "What could possibly go wrong? It's only the moon!"
During the credits, the mini-elephants from the earlier scene are seen underwater swimming over Atlantis.
After the commercial success of the first film, Walden Media and New Line Cinema purchased Richard Outten's spec script, Mysterious Travels, in March 2009 to serve as the basis for the film. In the story, the characters embark on a journey to a mysterious uncharted island thought to have inspired the writing of three literary classics: Robert Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island, Jonathan Swift's Gulliver's Travels, and Jules Verne's Mysterious Island. Brian Gunn and Mark Gunn were chosen to revise Outten's script.
Warner Bros. and New Line Cinema announced that Journey 2: The Mysterious Island would be released on February 10, 2012.
Brendan Fraser and Anita Briem did not return due to scheduling issues, but Hutcherson reprised his role. Jane Wheeler also did not return to play Liz (Sean's mother) and was replaced in the part by Kristin Davis. Dwayne Johnson played Sean's stepfather, who is forced to accompany Sean on the trip to find his missing grandfather, played by Michael Caine, on a mythical and monstrous island. In October 2010, it was announced that Vanessa Hudgens would play Hutcherson's love interest.
The film was filmed at eight locations on Oahu, Hawaii, but predominantly in various parts of Waimea Valley and Kualoa Ranch. Filming also took place in Wilmington, North Carolina from January 10 to February 10, 2011.
The theatrical release of the film is preceded by a Looney Tunes short film titled Daffy's Rhapsody. The short features Daffy Duck and Elmer Fudd in the first CG or 3-D depiction of these specific Looney Tunes characters. The short film's director, Matthew O'Callaghan, notes that "Daffy Rhapsody was originally recorded in the early 1950s as part of a kids' album." Unlike the earlier CG Looney Tunes shorts that appeared before Happy Feet Two and Yogi Bear, this short will not appear on the home video release of the film it accompanied.
Journey 2: The Mysterious Island earned $103,836,147 in North America and $222,000,000 in other countries, for a worldwide total of $325,860,290. It has surpassed its predecessor in both domestic and worldwide earnings.
In North America, the film earned a $6.54 million on its debut Friday, ranking fourth at the box office. Over the weekend, it earned $27.3 million coming in third place. That was much higher than the original's $21.0 million debut.
Outside North America, Journey 2 began its run three weeks before its North American release. It topped the box office outside North America for two consecutive weekends and three in total. It has surpassed the original's total outside North America. Its highest-grossing region after North America is China ($58.4 million), followed by Russia and the CIS ($17.6 million) and Mexico ($12.7 million).
Journey 2: The Mysterious Island has received generally mixed reviews from critics. It holds a "rotten" rating of 41% on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 125 reviews and an average rating of 5/10. The website's consensus is: "Aggressively unambitious, Journey 2 might thrill teen viewers, but most others will find it too intense for young audiences and too cartoonishly dull for adults". Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average score out of 1–100 reviews from film critics, has a rating score of 41 based on 27 reviews. Lisa Schwarzbaum of Entertainment Weekly gave the film a B grade, stating: "The movie flies by pleasantly, and is then instantly forgettable. Perhaps Jules Verne can explain the science of that". Randy Cordova from Arizona Republic said: "Johnson can't save the movie, directed by Brad Peyton, from being a sloppy skip from one seemingly unrelated idea to the next". Roger Ebert, who gave the first film two stars, gave the sequel two-and-a-half stars, stating: "It isn't a "good" movie in the usual sense (or most senses), but it is jolly and goodnatured, and Michael Caine and Dwayne Johnson are among the most likable of actors".
The sequel, Journey 3: From the Earth to the Moon, has been green-lit by New Line and Warner Bros, Brendan Fraser and Dwayne Johnson will return along with Josh Hutcherson and Director Brad Peyton. Writers Brian Gunn and Mark Gunn will work together on the sequel once again. The film is scheduled to be released in 2014 by Warner Bros. It will be loosely based on Jules Verne's novel, From the Earth to the Moon.
Journey 2: The Mysterious Island was released on DVD/Blu-Ray on June 5, 2012.
Intrepid young explorer Sean Anderson (Josh Hutcherson) traces a mysterious distress signal to a remote island that isn't on any map, and he embarks on a daring rescue mission while encountering a vast array of mythological creatures in this follow-up to 2008's Journey to the Center of the Earth. Joined by his new stepfather (Dwayne Johnson), an adventure-seeking helicopter pilot (Luis Guzman), and the pilot's headstrong daughter (Vanessa Hudgens), Sean navigates the crumbling stone corridors of Atlantis and comes face-to-face with bizarre life-forms while on a mission to track down his long-missing grandfather (Michael Caine). Later, as seismic shock waves threaten mass destruction, the group must race to escape the otherworldly paradise before the ocean swallows it up. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Journey 2: The Mysterious Island Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 94&nbsp;mins
