Flying Swords of Dragon Gate is a 2011 wuxia film directed by Tsui Hark and starring Jet Li, Zhou Xun, Chen Kun, Li Yuchun, Kwai Lun-mei, Louis Fan and Mavis Fan. The film is a remake of Dragon Gate Inn (1966) and New Dragon Gate Inn (1992). Production started on October 10, 2010 and is filmed in 3-D. The film screened out of competition at the 62nd Berlin International Film Festival in February 2012. The film received seven nominations at the 2012 Asian Film Awards, including Best Picture and Best Director.
The Emperors' eunuchs have gained power and influence, the East Bureau and West Bureau spy and police the nation. They visit the shipyards, but only as cover to execute those who would try and report their taking of bribes to the Emperor. Wandering hero Zhou Huai'an fights the leader of the East Bureau, defeating him and putting his head in a box and hanging it as a warning to other corrupt officials.
The Emperors chief concubine asks the West Bureau why they waste time on power struggles when she only cares for them to prevent the Emperor making anyone but her pregnant. Three courtesans have been executed, a fourth is being hunted down. Officials stop a riverboat and are about to execute a woman but a masked hero intervenes. Zhou watches from nearby and the masked hero also claims to be Zhou. The imposter helps the courtesan flee to Dragons Gate, Zhou and his followers decide to fight the West Bureau help delay them and aid in the escape.
A sandstorm threatens the Dragons Gate, and most travellers flee to the more sheltered courier station but a few bandits and mercenaries and the officials hunting the missing courtesan remain. The group of rogues plan to find a treasure hidden by the sandstorms.
Although this film is based on the story of 1992's New Dragon Gate Inn, Tsui denied that this film would be a remake of the old classic but more of a re-imagining. Tsui also worked on the screenplay in addition to directing and producing the film, to ensure the originality of the story. Before Jet Li was signed on for the role of Zhou Huai'an, Tsui reportedly offered the role to Donnie Yen but he turned it down due to the fact he doesn't wish to be in sequels/remakes of previous films he has already worked on. Jet Li was signed with US$ 12 million contract to start in this film. Li explained his reason for joining this film stating,
I have acquired an affinity with wuxia since young, which led me onto the path of filmmaking, and thereby changing my entire destiny. Director Tsui Hark has placed me upon an enigmatic and vibrant stage, adding another layer of sentimental experience to my life. Stepping into this showbiz, allowed me to look at life from a different angle, and I have never felt that I had ever left the wuxia world.
Actress Zhou Xun was also quoted for her reason for joining this film and she explains,
Tsui also invited Chuck Comisky, the visual-effects supervisor for James Cameron's Avatar, as the 3-D director to manage the special effects. Comisky will lead a team of 3D crew from China, Korea, Singapore, Spain, etc.
Ming Dynasty general Chow Wai-On (Jet Li) clashes with nefarious eunuch Yu Hua-Tian (Chen Kun), but the real action begins when the feuding pair encounter Lin Yan-Qiu (Zhou Xun) at a secluded desert outpost known as the Dragon Gate Inn. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Flying Swords of Dragon Gate Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 122&nbsp;mins
