The Treasure Hunter (Chinese: 刺陵; pinyin: Ci Ling) is a 2009 Taiwanese action film directed by Taiwanese director Chu Yin-Ping and stars Taiwanese actors Jay Chou and Lin Chi-ling. Ching Siu-tung served as action director.
In the northwest desert where countless prosperous dynasties have flourished and fallen, there is a rumor that buried amongst the sand exists a tomb containing countless riches. A group of mysterious guardians have been guarding the map to the location of the treasure until a fierce rivalry erupts. A notorious international crime group, The Company, manage to hunt down the map keeper but not before he manages to pass the map to a young chivalrous man, Qiao Fei (Jay Chou).
Qiao Fei is forced to give up the map to save the life of his mentor's daughter Lan Ting (Lin Chi-ling). Teaming up with Hua Ding Bang (Chen Daoming), who is a famous archeologist, and Lan Ting they embark on a dangerous journey to recover the map and fight to protect the ancient treasure.
The film was generally panned by critics.
According to Perry Lam of Muse Magazine, 'Chou plays his role with a mix of nonchalance and self-righteousness which is simply irritating. He fits perfectly into a movie that, though trying hard to be escapist entertainment, often approaches its material with utmost solemnity; anything resembling a laugh, let alone fun, is taken out.'

Her father killed while attempting to track down an ancient treasure, adventure writer Lanting (Lin Chiling) races to acquire the missing map, and encounters wonders beyond her wildest fantasies. Lanting has always written about adventure, but she's never actually experienced it. But that all changes when her father perishes under mysterious circumstances and his priceless treasure map disappears. Now, with the help of her childhood friend Qiaofei (Jay Chou), who also worked as her late father's assistant, Lanting ventures into the deserts of Mongolia and learns that some supernatural legends are born of truth. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Treasure Hunter Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 105&nbsp;mins
