Six Bullets is an independent short western film written and directed by Graham Killeen. The film's narrative centers around a family torn apart by the work of an evil demon. It was Killeen's directorial debut and is credited with earning him the "Best Local Filmmaker" award from the Milwaukee Newspaper Shepherd Express in 2006. Signal Fire Films funded the film and is currently submitting it to the American film festival circuit.
The first draft of the script was completed by Killeen in Wisconsin in January 2004. Various rewrites, preproduction meetings, and funding meetings took up the bulk of Killeen's time until filming began in earnest in May 2005 and concluded in November 2006. Filming was primarily in Southeastern Wisconsin, but some second unit photography was completed in South Dakota and Minnesota. The earliest versions of the film were audience tested in June 2006, after which the film was drastically re-edited and completed in February 2007. Special visual effects were created by Little Fish Digital Studios in Wisconsin, and audio was completed by Brandaudio in Minnesota.
(partial list)
The original score to Six Bullets was composed by the electronica band Endless Blue and produced by Nick Mitchell, with additional support and musicians from Minneapolis, Minnesota. The score explores the traditional "downtempo" feel of previous Endless Blue recordings, but is infused with less typical instruments, including acoustic guitar, Native American rhythm instruments, strings, and piano. The soundtrack CD of the movie was released in April 2007.
The film has been featured at a number of film festivals:

Veteran mercenary Samson Gaul (Jean-Claude Van Damme) knows that in the heat of battle, every bullet counts. He retired from combat when his actions resulted in the deaths of helpless victims, but now he's the last hope for a desperate father. Mixed Martial Artist, Andrew Fayden (Joe Flanigan, Stargate: Atlantis) knows how to fight, but alone he's unprepared to navigate the corrupt streets of a foreign city to find his kidnapped daughter. Together, these warriors will stop at nothing to tear apart a vile network of criminals that prey upon the innocent.See All Six Bullets Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 115&nbsp;mins
