A Burning Hot Summer (pre-release title: That Summer) is a 2011 drama film directed by Philippe Garrel, starring Monica Bellucci, Louis Garrel, Céline Sallette and Jérôme Robart. Its original French title is Un été brûlant, which means "A burning summer". The film tells the story of a stormy relationship between an actress and a painter.
The film was the second collaboration between director Philippe Garrel and the French production company Rectangle Productions. It received co-production support from Italy's Faro Film and Switzerland's Prince Film. The 3.1 million euro budget included money from the CNC, the Italian Ministry of Culture, the Swiss Federal Office for Culture, 400,000 euro from Eurimages and 192,000 euro from the Île-de-France region. The film was first announced in 2009 under the title J'ai gardé les anges, which means "I have guarded the angels". The title had been changed to the current when principal photography began in July 2010. Filming took place during eight weeks in Rome and Paris.
The film premiered on 2 September 2011 in competition at the 68th Venice International Film Festival. The French release was set to 28 September through Wild Bunch Distribution.

Two couples find their attitudes about themselves and one another are challenged in this drama from veteran French auteur Philippe Garrel. Frederic (Louis Garrel) is an artist who is married to Angele (Monica Bellucci), a successful actress. Frederic strikes up a close friendship with Paul (Jerome Robart), an actor who gets by playing bit parts and filling out crowd scenes. When a film project takes Angele to Italy, she and Frederic invite Paul to join them, and he brings along his new girlfriend, a fellow bit player named Elisabeth (Celine Sallette). As Frederic and Paul spend more time together, Angele bonds with Elisabeth, but while the men are content to talk about simple things, the women find themselves discussing issues in their relationships, including jealousy, anger and temptation. In time, the women's dissatisfaction leads them to consider other partners, turning their relationships upside down. Un été brûlant received its North American premiere at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 95&nbsp;mins
