Mia and the Migoo (French: 'Mia et le Migou') is a 2008 French animated film produced by Folimage and directed by Jacques-Rémy Girerd, about a young girl's search for her father in a tropical paradise threatened by the construction of a gigantic hotel resort. The film won the European Film Award for Best Animated Feature at the 22nd European Film Awards. An English-language version with popular celebrity voice actors had a limited released in the United States on 27 March 2011 and received generally mixed to negative critical reviews. It stars Whoopi Goldberg, Matthew Modine, Wallace Shawn, James Woods, John DiMaggio, and Amanda Misquez. In the United States, it is also the first film released by GKIDS to star famous celebrities.
One night Mia has a premonition. So after saying a few words of parting at her mother's grave, she sets out on a journey across mountains and jungles to search for her father, who is trapped in a landslide at a remote construction site.
This film opened in France on December 10, 2008. It later premiered at the New York International Children's Film Festival on February 27, 2009 and the U.S. premiere was held in New York City on March 25, 2011.
The film was released on DVD by Entertainment One in North America on August 7, 2012.
The English-language version of the film had a limited release on April 22, 2011, only earning $16,975.
The French release was received favorably, while the limited U.S. version release received generally mixed to negative reviews, criticizing the crude humor and the scary scenes, thinking that this film may not be appropriate for children, while praising the animation and the story line.
Kyle Smith of New York Post gave this film 1 out of 4 stars and said that "Mia and the Migoo" is far too childish to intrigue adults yet too slow and dull for kids.
Shawn Levy of The Oregonian gave this film a C- and wrote, "It's lovely, truly, but so heavy-handed and slipshod that it's probably best enjoyed with the sound off -- an option they're not likely to offer at the movie theater".
On the other hand, Manohla Dargis of The New York Times gave this film a 3/5 stars and said that "trying to parse meaning in "Mia" is secondary to its main point, which is its look, created with 500,000 hand-drawn frames".
This film has a 38% rating on the film critics aggregate site Rotten Tomatoes, based on 16 reviews, with an average rating of 5.1/10.
Jacques-Remy Girerd, acclaimed director of La Prophetie des Grenouilles, returns to write and direct this animated fantasy adventure following a young girl as she encounters a strange creature who teaches her about a sacred tree that is essential to all life on the planet. Young Mia lives on an island that is currently being transformed into a lavish resort by an unscrupulous real-estate developer. Her father, Pedro, is one of the laborers charged with constructing the resort, though lately the project has been beset by a series of mysterious problems. Those problems become rather serious when Pedro winds up buried in a tunnel after a massive landslide, and Mia races through the jungle to aid in the rescue mission. Along the way, Mia encounters the Migou, a race of curious identical creatures that can take any form they please. The Migou protect a tree that is crucial to the future of all living creatures on Earth, and that tree is in danger due to the development that Mia's father has been working on. In order to protect the tree, the Migou have been disrupting the development. When word of the landslide reaches the developer responsible for the project, he travels to the island with his son, Alden, determined to dispense with any obstacles that impede further progress on the resort. But Alden resents everything that his father stands for, and upon meeting Mia he vows to help rescue Pedro and protect the sacred tree -- the same tree that his father has vowed to chop down at all costs, an act that will undoubtedly usher in a dark era of death and decay. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Mia and the Migoo Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 92&nbsp;mins
