Alpha and Omega is a 2010 3D American computer animated comedy drama film produced by Crest Animation Productions. The film is directed by Anthony Bell and Ben Gluck, starring the voices of Justin Long, Hayden Panettiere, Dennis Hopper (in his last film appearance), Danny Glover and Christina Ricci. It is based on a story by Steve Moore and Ben Gluck.
The film was released in 3-D (and also in 2-D) on September 17, 2010 to 2,625 theaters nationwide by Lionsgate. Despite the mixed-to-negative reaction, the film was a box office success, making it the highest-grossing animated film from Lionsgate Films.
The film was also dedicated to Dennis Hopper in memory of his death, being his final performance.
Kate (Hayden Panettiere) and Humphrey (Justin Long) are two wolves from the same pack in Canada's Jasper National Park but on opposite ends of the social order. Kate, daughter of the main Alpha male Winston (Danny Glover) and his mate Eve (Vicki Lewis), is herself an Alpha and takes her duty to the pack seriously. Humphrey, on the other hand, is an Omega wolf, the lowest of the pack, and spends his days making fun with his other Omega friends. Despite his low rank in the pack, Humphrey falls in love with Kate and is valued in the pack as a peacemaker by virtue of his affable nature.
During her youth, Kate left to begin Alpha school with her father. Humphrey is disappointed she has left. She returns as a fully trained Alpha but on her first hunt (the Alphas are the ones responsible for providing food for the pack), two members of the Eastern pack cross into Western pack territory due to the lack of caribous in their own land. The hunt is ruined and the packs are nearly at war with each other. The two packs have had a bitter rivalry ever since Tony (Dennis Hopper), the Alpha male of the Eastern pack, commanded his wolves to cross over into Western territory (against pack law) in order to hunt, to prevent their pack from starving. Winston and Tony meet up one night and arrange for Kate to marry Garth (Chris Carmack), Tony's son. Kate, having a sense of responsibility and duty, wearily agrees for the good of the pack and she meets Garth at the Howling Rock.
Garth is also an Alpha and appears perfect at first in every way, until Kate hears him howl. Kate, taken back by Garth's terrible howl, leaves the scene to "get water". Humphrey then notices Kate and surprises her. The two then talk about Garth. Humphrey gets seemingly jealous, since he is the one who would like to be Kate's mate. But can't because Alphas and Omegas can not be together. Only eat together. Humphrey annoys Kate, when suddenly, they get tranquilized by some men in the butts and taken away to Idaho. The two wolves wake up at Sawtooth National Recreation Area and meet a goose named Marcel (Larry Miller) who has an avid interest in golf and his caddy, a duck named Paddy (Eric Price). Humphrey and Kate learn that they were relocated to repopulate the species. Kate is horrified by the idea, but Humphrey is more interested, he would love to mate with Kate. This would probably be his only chance, being an Omega. Marcel and Paddy agree to help the wolves return home to Jasper Park. Kate needs to get home to marry Garth for her responsibility. Humphrey is disappointed but finally agrees.
Trouble brews back at Jasper Park as the two packs discover that Kate has gone missing. Tony warns Winston that on the next full moon if Kate doesn't return to marry Garth, he and his pack will declare war for their territory. Lily (Christina Ricci), an Omega wolf who is Kate’s younger sister, has a crush on Garth and suggests that she shows him around.
After a failed attempt to get home (in which the wolves hid in the back of a van) When Humphrey was hungry and went for a snack and two men thought he was a rabid wolf, Kate finds a ravine and attempts to cross it. She slips down the cliff, but Humphrey saves her life by swinging from a vine and letting her grab his tail with her teeth. Kate is very thankful and seems to like Humphrey a lot more. After that the two find a den for the night.
The next morning, Marcel and Paddy find the wolves and direct them to a train over a snowy mountain that will take them to Jasper. Climbing the mountain, Humphrey meets a bear cub who is unfamiliar with wolves. When they are playing, the cub gets hurt when a snowball is thrown at him. This angers a trio of mad bears (most likely the cub's family) who think that Humphrey was trying to harm the cub. When Kate realizes that Humphrey is in danger, she rushes in to help him, causing them to slide down the other side of the mountain. Humphrey saves Kate,(Using a log as a sled)and, as the train passes by, the two wolves manage to get into a boxcar just in time.
Meanwhile Lilly and Garth are bonding. At the midnight howl, Lilly is not deterred by Garth's less than perfect howl and teaches him to howl with his heart. At the same time, Humphrey and Kate begin to howl together as well on the train. Even though both couples are not aloud to sing together,Kate enjoys it. Both couples sing in perfect unison. By this time, the full moon has come and the packs declare war against one another.
Shortly after, as the train passes by Jasper, Humphrey attempts to tell Kate how he feels about her, but the sight of the packs fighting causes her to jump off the train before he can finish. Kate stops the fight by announcing that she will marry Garth for the good of the packs, much to Humphrey and Lilly's dismay.
The next day, a heartbroken Humphrey decides to leave Jasper and travel on his own and shares his goodbyes with Kate, Marcel, Paddy and Lilly. Yet Kate feels heartbroken too after realizing how she feels about Humphrey. During the ceremony Kate decides not to marry Garth, declaring her love for Humphrey. Garth declares his own love for Lilly. Winston is confused while Tony is enraged that his son is in love with an Omega, which goes against pack customs. His pack starts to fight the other pack out of anger, but the conflict is cut short when a massive stampede of caribou interrupts the scene. Winston and Tony get caught in the stampede and Kate and Humphrey (who decide to return) rush in to save them using a log as a sled (just like with the bear attack). Kate is hit hard and Humphrey shields her with his body, and Winston and Tony growl at the passing caribou in order to protect Humphrey from getting hit. After the stampede passes, it appears that Kate has been trampled to death. Upon her seemingly apparent death, the wolves of both packs begin to howl in mourning sadness, but she wakes up to the joy and relief of the packs. Now, at long last, Humphrey and Kate reveal their feelings for each other by whispering to one another. Winston and Tony then decide to unite the packs and retire. When they wonder what to do, Marcel says, "Gentleman, may I interest you to golf?" and shoots a golf ball at the screen.
Later at the Moonlight Howl, all the wolves celebrate the marriages of Kate, Humphrey, Garth and Lilly. The film ends with Humphrey and Kate singing a duet.
Pre-production and post-production took place in Los Angeles, with key animation produced by Crest Animation Productions in India.
Alpha and Omega took in $2,288,773 on its opening day, and $9,106,906 on its opening weekend domestically, reaching fifth place at the box office. The film's opening was mildly disappointing, as it had only earned a fraction of 2010's other animated films as well as claiming the record for lowest-grossing 3D film released in at least 2,000 venues from Piranha 3D (only to lose it to My Soul to Take three weeks later). In its second weekend, due to being overshadowed by Legend of the Guardians: The Owls of Ga'Hoole for 3-D screens, the film dropped 48% to $4.8 million and eighth place. After its third weekend, the film held better with a 37% drop to around $3 million and finishing in tenth place. The film ended its run on December 2, 2010 after grossing $25 million domestically and $25 million in other territories. Produced on a $20 million budget, the film has been declared a financial success, and is Lionsgate's highest-grossing animated feature to date.
Alpha and Omega has received mixed to negative reviews from critics. It holds a score of 16% on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 56 reviews, with the consensus being "With bland visuals and a dull, predictable plot, Alpha and Omega is a runt in 2010's animated litter." While some critics praised the film for its characters, score and animation, others criticized it for having a predictable plot and weak storyline. At Metacritic, the film holds a score of 36 out of 100, based on 15 reviews, indicating "generally unfavorable" reviews.
Published by Storm City Games, a video game adaptation called Alpha and Omega (based on the film) was exclusively released for the Nintendo DS in late 2010 and is only available in North America.
Alpha and Omega was released on DVD and Blu-ray on January 11, 2011, and the PSP version was released on February 8, 2011.
The film was nominated for an Artios Award for Outstanding achievement in Casting.

Two mismatched wolves embark on a cross-country quest to get back home and restore peace in their pack after being relocated thousands of miles away by well-meaning park rangers. Quick-witted Humphrey (voice of Justin Long) likes to frolic with friends and play video games with squirrels; disciplined Kate (voice of Hayden Panettiere) likes to call the shots and hunt caribou. Normally, an omega wolf like Humphrey would never stand a chance with an alpha wolf like Kate, but when they're both transported halfway across the country they must work together to get back to their natural habitat. And it won't be easy either, because the one thing Humphrey and Kate can agree on is that they don't have anything in common. Perhaps by working together toward a common goal, however, the two contentious traveling companions will finally realize that even lone wolves can use a helping paw every once in a while. Christina Ricci, Danny Glover, Dennis Hopper, and Larry Miller also supply voices for the Crest Animation production, helmed by Anthony Bell and Ben Gluck from a script by Chris Denk. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Alpha and Omega Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 78&nbsp;mins
