"Planet Hulk" is a Marvel Comics storyline that ran primarily through issues of The Incredible Hulk started in 2006. It dealt primarily with the Marvel heroes' decision to send the Hulk away, his acclimation to and conquest of the planet where he landed, and his efforts to return to Earth to take his revenge.
There was also a special Planet Hulk: Gladiator Guidebook publication by Anthony Flamini and the storyline's main writer Greg Pak, similar to the Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe detailing the characters, races and cultures within the storyline.
The storyline's main writer Greg Pak describes the origin of the ideas:
He also drew from real-world history:
The story's roots began in the New Avengers: Illuminati one-shot and Incredible Hulk #88-91. The main storyline was told in Incredible Hulk #92-105, and Giant-Size Hulk vol 2 #1.
It led directly to the World War Hulk crossover, and inspired the Son of Hulk series.
The story was re-examined in What If?: Planet Hulk.
The Illuminati decide the Hulk is too dangerous to remain on Earth. They trick him into entering orbit to destroy a rogue satellite, and then use a shuttle to jettison him from the solar system. They intended him to land on a peaceful planet, but the shuttle passes through a wormhole on its way.
As Hulk listens to a recording from the Illuminati explaining their actions, his shuttle crashes on the planet Sakaar. Weakened from the crash, Hulk is fixed with an obedience disk and taken into slavery. He is forced to fight gladiator battles for the planet's emperor, the Red King. Hulk forms a warbound pact with his fellow gladiators Miek, no-name Brood, Elloe Kaifi, Lavin Skee, Hiroim and Korg.
Hulk becomes a popular hero for his actions in the arena, and a group of insurgents try to recruit the Hulk to their cause. The Hulk declines, but Elloe chooses to go with the rebels.
During their next gladiator fight, Lavin Skee is killed. As the others come closer to winning their freedom, the Red King's lieutenant, Caiera, arranges for them to fight the Silver Surfer, who is also controlled by an obedience disk. During the battle, the Hulk breaks the Silver Surfer's disk, freeing him. The Silver Surfer then destroys all the obedience disks of everyone in the arena. As he leaves Sakaar, he offers to return Hulk to Earth. Hulk chooses to stay behind.
The Hulk and his warbound, now on the run from the Red King, are hunted by Caiera. As they travel through villages, Hulk finds followers who believe he is the foretold savior, "Sakaarson." Hulk denies this title. Caiera finally confronts the Hulk, their battle is interrupted by an invasion of "spikes" that cause monsterous mutations and death to anyone they touch. Caiera calls the Red King for assistance and learns that he ordered the spikes to be deployed there. Horrified at what her king has done, Caiera joins the Hulk.
Hulk leads a raid on the Red King's capital, culminating in a one-on-one battle between the two of them. The Red King is defeated, and Hulk is named the new king. He takes Caiera for his wife, and the two are able to broker peace among the various conflicts which had festered under the Red King. Caiera becomes pregnant with Hulk's child.
Meanwhile, the shuttle that brought Hulk to Sakaar is being turned into a monument. Its engine detonates in a massive explosion. The whole city is destroyed, and Caiera dies. Enraged and blaming the Illuminati who built the shuttle for the damage, Hulk and his warbound leave Sakaar and head for Earth.
Arriving on Earth, Hulk and the warbound begin World War Hulk.
Sakaar rebuilds after the explosion with the help of Hulk's two surviving sons, Skaar and Hiro-Kala.
The series has been collected into a number of individual volumes:
A special issue of What If? featured three alternate versions of Planet Hulk:
Exiled into deep space by the most powerful superheroes on Earth, the Incredible Hulk becomes an unlikely hero after crash landing on a distant planet. Millions of light years from Earth, the Red King rules planet Sakaar with an iron fist. When Hulk arrives on Sakaar, he is sold as a slave and forced to fight as a gladiator. The people of Sakaar need a savior, and as Hulk fights his way through a series of formidable opponents, he forms a powerful bond with four fearsome warriors. Later, along with the help of fellow combatants Miek, Korg, Hiroim, and Elloe, Hulk wages war on the despotic Red King. As the battle intensifies, it begins to appear that Hulk may be Sakaar's destroyer, rather than its savior. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Planet Hulk Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 81&nbsp;mins
