All-Star Superman is a twelve-issue comic book series featuring Superman that ran from November 2005 to October 2008. The series was written by Grant Morrison, drawn by Frank Quitely, digitally inked by Jamie Grant and published by DC Comics. DC claimed that this series would "strip down the Man of Steel to his timeless, essential elements".
The series was the second to be launched in 2005 under DC's All-Star imprint, the first being All Star Batman and Robin the Boy Wonder. These series are attempts by DC to allow major comics creators a chance to tell stories showcasing these characters without being restricted by DC Universe continuity.
Grant Morrison's approach to writing this series was to make the reading as universal as possible. He stated that he wasn't interested in "re-doing origin stories or unpacking classic narratives" but instead wanted to do "a total update, rehaul and refit". However, rather than just creating a "fresh and relevant" update for new readers, Morrison wanted to write a "collection of ‘timeless’ Superman issues". The origins of this lie in a revamp of Superman, Superman Now, which began when Morrison and editor Dan Raspler were unsuccessfully brainstorming ideas for a new take on the character outside the San Diego Comic Con, when they had a "shamanic" encounter with a man dressed as Superman which helped spark the creative process and inspired the cover to the first issue:
The ideas generated by that meeting were refined and pitched to DC in 1998 by Morrison, Mark Millar, Mark Waid and Tom Peyer. They picked up on the fifteen-year cycle of reboots to the character, the previous one being John Byrne's The Man of Steel, and suggested a new approach:
Although initially greenlit, it was eventually turned down and Morrison said, "I didn’t expect to be doing any further work on Superman" but the chance came as he was finishing his run on New X-Men. In an interview with Matt Brady from Newsarama, Grant Morrison stated he was contacted by DC Vice President Dan DiDio and asked "if I'd like to come back to DC to work on a Superman project with an artist of my choice". He mentioned it worked out well since he was also planning to return to DC "to do the Seven Soldiers project and the Vertigo books".
Morrison has confirmed that he made use of some of his Superman Now ideas for All-Star Superman, like "Luthor’s heart–stopping moment of understanding," as well as drawing on his original proposal for elements later included in the DC One Million storyline.
In his writing of the character Superman, Morrison identifies different aspects of his personality, stating, "'Superman' is an act. 'Clark Kent' in Metropolis is also an act. There are actually two Kents, at least – one is a disguise, a bumbling, awkward mask for Superman. The other is the confident, strong, good-hearted Clark Kent who was raised by his surrogate Ma and Pa in Kansas and knows how to drive a tractor. I think he's the most 'real' of all."
As the series drew to a close, writer Grant Morrison conceived of a series of one-shot specials, loose in continuity from the original series, that would depict or pay tribute to the Golden Age Superman, the Super-Sons World's Finest Comics team, the Superman Squad, the Superman of the 853rd Century, and the Superman dynasty. Publisher Dan DiDio has stated that are no current plans for the specials.
Dr. Leo Quintum and his team from P.R.O.J.E.C.T. are exploring the Sun when they are sabotaged by a Lex Luthor clone. Superman saves the day, but acquires the ability to project his bio-electric aura. Lex Luthor has orchestrated this to overwhelm Superman's cells with massive amounts of solar radiation. Quintum determines that Superman's new power is also killing him, and he has one year left to live. Lex Luthor is arrested, thanks to a Daily Planet article by Clark Kent. Superman decides to keep his impending death secret from the public.
However, Superman reveals his secret identity to Lois Lane because he wants to spend his remaining time with her. Lois refuses to believe that Clark and Superman are the same person. For her birthday, Superman takes her to the Fortress of Solitude, where they have dinner in a stateroom of the RMS Titanic. During this visit, he also tells Lois that she can explore the Fortress save for one room he is constantly checking. Superman's behavior heightens Lois' suspicions and she becomes paranoid. She attacks Superman with a kryptonite laser but his enhanced powers have rendered him immune to it.
Superman calms her down and reveals that he was preparing her birthday present: a costume for her and a liquefied form of his DNA that will grant her all his superpowers for 24 hours. Using the name "Superwoman", she and Superman stop a monster attack in Metropolis involving Samson, Atlas and an Ultra-Sphinx. Superman defeats them and he and Lois leave for the moon and kiss before her powers fade and she falls asleep. Superman flies her back home.
Luthor is guilty of crimes against humanity and is sentenced to death. Clark meets Luthor for an interview at Stryker's Island. Luthor discloses his respect for Clark as a journalist and states that he has no desire to escape as long as he defeats Superman by causing his death. He reveals to Clark that Superman is dying, hoping that it will be published in the Daily Planet.
Nearing death, Superman accomplishes a variety of tasks that significantly help both humans & Kryptonians and completes his last will and testament. Meanwhile, Luthor survives his execution as he took a serum similar to what Superman made and escapes. Superman then learns of Luthor's ally: Solaris, who has tampered with the sun. Superman engages Solaris until a Sun-Eater Superman had cared for in the Fortress and subsequently released returns to sacrifice itself to weaken it. Superman brings Solaris to Earth because he has learned from the Superman Squad that Solaris will become an ally in the future. Clark returns to the Daily Planet to submit his article but falls dead. As the staff tries to save him, Luthor arrives and attacks Metropolis.
Thinking he's on Krypton, Kal-El joins Jor-El, who reveals that Kal-El's body is converting itself to a solar radio-consciousness. He offers him a choice: remain or come back to life. Clark wakes up and fights Luthor with a gravity gun. The gravity gun warps time for Luthor, burning out his powers. As his powers fade, Luthor briefly sees the world as Superman sees it, and weeps before Superman knocks him out. Superman and Lois embrace and he proclaims his love for her once and for all. He takes off, flies into the Sun and repairs it, saving the day for one last time. One year later, Lois still believes that Superman will return. Inside the sun, Superman, now a solar being, is making machinery within. The story concludes with Quintum revealing that if something happens, they will be ready, revealing that Superman entrusted him with his DNA to create a clone in his absence.
In an interview with Newsarama, Morrison lists the 12 Labors
The first issue was released in November 2005 and was a sales success, ranking second in the top 300 comics for that period, with Infinite Crisis #2 being the top seller. The second issue also ranked second in the top 300 comics for the January 2006 period, with pre-order sales of 124,328; Infinite Crisis #4 being the top seller that month. The series completed its run upon publication of its final issue on October 2008.
Jeremy Estes, an early reviewer from PopMatters, notes the difficulty in revamping the character Superman in his review of the first issue of the series. However, the All-Star continuity allows the writer Grant Morrison much more writing freedom. Frank Quitely's art is praised as "fresh and modern", while still "evoking the classic hero known around the world". At the time of writing. only the first issue had been released, and so Estes was unsure of the direction of the story, noting the creative team "have set up a promising tale, but only time will tell if they take the last train to Memphis or head West, all the way to Vegas".
Nicholas Labarre, writing for Sequart, argued that All-Star Superman "confidently exploits the near omnipotence of the main character," in contrast with other Superman stories. He compared the series favorably with Morrison's other work.
Ed Mathews from PopImage reviewed the first collected trade paperback, which collects the first six issues, and praised the creative team, stating the art is "the most elegant work out of Frank Quitely I’ve seen to date". Mathews also singled out Grant Morrison's, saying that the series adds to the Superman mythos "by tweaking bits and parts from the character’s rich history just enough to make old concepts fresh again". He recommended Volume 1 of the collected editions, and stated that "All Star Superman sings a hit".
Another review of Volume 1 came from Danny Graydon of The First Post, who stated that Grant Morrison's writing is "the most vigorously entertaining take on the 'Man of Steel' in decades" and that the "nuanced artwork is to be savoured".
Time magazine's Lev Grossman ranked the graphic novel third in Top 10 Graphic Novels of 2007. He praised the storyline, noting that due to the character's strength and morality, he is a difficult character to write for.
All-Star Superman won the Eisner Award for "Best New Series" in 2006, as well as "Best Continuing Series" in 2007 and 2009. It also won the Harvey Awards for "Best Artist" and "Best Single Issue" in 2008. In 2006 it won the Eagle Award for "Favourite New Comic book" and "Favourite Comics Cover" (for the first issue), as well as the 2007 "Favourite Colour Comicbook - American" Eagle.
The series has been collected into three volumes in hardcover and softcover format:
All-Star Superman, a film in the DC Universe Animated Original Movies series, is an adaptation of Grant Morrison and Frank Quitely's 2005–2008 comic book All-Star Superman. It was written by writer Dwayne McDuffie and directed by Sam Liu. It was released on February 22, 2011. It stars James Denton as Superman, Christina Hendricks as Lois Lane, Anthony LaPaglia as Lex Luthor, Edward Asner as Perry White, Obba Babatundé as Judge, Steven Blum as Atlas, Linda Cardellini as Nasthalthia "Nasty" Luthor, Frances Conroy as Martha Kent, Alexis Denisof as Dr. Leo Quintum, Michael Gough as Parasite, Matthew Gray Gubler as Jimmy Olsen, Finola Hughes as Lilo, Kevin Michael Richardson as Steve Lombard, and Arnold Vosloo as Bar-El.

This animated adventure finds the ultimate superhero Superman succumbing to the clutches of disturbed criminal mastermind Lex Luthor, who has constructed a plan to murder the Man of Steel with solar radiation. Following his exposure to the deadly phenomenon, Superman is sure he only has weeks to live, and lays plans to make good on the many tasks that ahead of him before he expires -- including telling the truth about his secret identity to Lois Lane, and defeating Lex once and for all. But is the hero's fate truly sealed, or can he appeal the fatal sentence and live to fight once more? ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All All-Star Superman Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 76&nbsp;mins
