A Bag of Hammers is a 2011 comedy-drama film directed by Brian Crano.
Ben and Alan are great friends who have know each other since high school, and they genuinely haven't grown up. For a living, they pose as valets at funerals and then steal their customers' cars and sell them to a pessimistic car dealer. Mel, Alan's sister, encourages them to find respectable occupation, but Ben and Alan don't take Mel's advice. Then, Lynette moves into their neighborhood. She is a single mother who is financially insecure and has a short temper, as Mel finds out. When Lynette commits suicide, Alan and Ben take her son Kelsey under their wing. With the help of an unenthusiastic Mel, who deems their idea crazy, they try to involve him within their car-theft scheme. However, they come to realize that Kelsey needs more suitable role models, and Ben and Alan will have to grow up.
The film received mixed reviews. Website metacritic gave the film a score of 50 out of 100, indicating "mixed or average reviews".
Scott Tobias of The A.V. Club enjoyed the film and gave it a B-.
Other reviewers, such as Nick Schager of Time Out New York hated the film, giving it 1 star out of 5.
A kid in need of adult guidance gets taken under the wings of two guys who stubbornly refuse to mature in this independent comedy. Alan (Jake Sandvig) and Ben (Jason Ritter) are two friends in their mid-twenties who've known each other since high school and still behave as if they're stuck in adolescence. They make a living by pretending to offer valet parking at funerals, stealing the cars and selling them to a fence (Todd Louiso) who runs a garage. While Alan's sister Mel (Rebecca Hall) encourages the two to find a more responsible occupation, they don't do much about it until Lynette (Carrie Preston) moves into the neighborhood. Lynette is a single mother whose livelihood seems no more stable than Alan and Ben's, and when she mysteriously disappears, it falls to them to look after her 12-year-old son Kelsey (Chandler Canterbury). While initially Alan and Ben seem more like destructive playmates than guardians and try to bring Kelsey into their car-theft scheme, in time it occurs to them to start acting a bit more like fit role models for their young companion. A Bag of Hammers was the first feature film from writer and director Brian Crano. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All A Bag of Hammers Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 85&nbsp;mins
