Heartbeats
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 101
Director: Xavier Dolan
Cast: Xavier Dolan,Monia Chokri,Niels Schneider,Anne Dorval,Anne-Élisabeth Bosse,Olivier Morin,Magalie Lepine Blondeau,Éric Bruneau,Gabriel Lessard,Benedicte Decary,François Bernier,Benoît McGinnis,François Xavier Dufour,Anthony Huneault,Patricia Dulasne,Jody Hargreaves,Clara Palardy,Minou Petrowski,Perrettte Sounder,Sophie Desmarais,Marie-Christine Cormier,Louis Garrel (special appearance),
Content: Two friends compete for the affections of the same man in this romantic drama from Canada. Marie (Monia Chokri) is a woman living in Montreal who has frequently been let down in her relationships with men, while her close friend Francis (Xavier Dolan) is a gay man who hasn't been faring much better in his love life. When Marie meets Nicolas (Niels Schneider), a good-looking man who is new in town, she's immediately attracted to him and tries to use her feminine allure to win him over. However, Francis is equally drawn to Nicolas, and the new man hasn't revealed his sexual preferences strongly enough for either Marie or Francis to be certain where they stand. The two friends each begin taking bolder steps in hopes of earning Nicolas' attention until their rivalry threatens to destroy their friendship. Heartbeats (aka Les Amours Imaginaires) was directed, written, and edited by Xavier Dolan, who also co-stars as Francis; the film was an official selection at the 2010 Cannes Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
Heartbeats (French: Les Amours Imaginaires) is a 2010 Canadian drama film directed by Xavier Dolan. It follows the story of two friends who both fall in love with the same man. It premiered in the Un Certain Regard section of the 2010 Cannes Film Festival.
Francis and Marie first meet Nicolas at a dinner party, where they both feign lack of interest in him. Over the course of the next couple of the weeks, the three form a close friendship, meeting up regularly and even sleeping together in the same bed. However, it is clear that both Marie and Francis have an interest in Nicolas beyond friendship; Marie is visibly disappointed when she hopes to enjoy an intimate meal with Nicolas at a Vietnamese restaurant, only to see Francis and his friends there, and Francis is consumed by lust for Nicolas to the extent that he vigorously masturbates over the smell of Nicolas' clothes when left alone in his apartment. Both are led on by their interpretation of Nicolas' actions, such as eating a cherry from Francis' hand and telling Marie he loves them. Their feelings lead to competition between the two friends for Nicolas' affections, evidenced by their rivalry over the gifts they buy for his birthday.
The relationship culminates in a trip to stay in the vacation home of Nicolas' mother. Marie becomes jealous when Nicolas feeds Francis a marshmallow, telling him to eat it slowly like a 'striptease', and she goes to bed early. The next morning, she wakes up alone and again observes the two frolicking together from afar. She decides to leave, at which point Francis chases after her and the two end up wrestling on the ground. Nicolas is not impressed and decides to leave, saying they can love him or leave him. On returning from the trip, they don't see Nicolas, both leaving messages on his answerphone and Marie writing him a love letter. Eventually, Francis meets Nicolas and ends up pouring out his feelings, telling him he loves him and wants to kiss him. The only response from Nicolas is to ask him 'How could you think I was gay?', leaving Francis devastated. Later, Marie catches up with Nicolas in the street, and tells him about the love letter, but implies she wrote it to a female friend. From this, Nicolas comes to the conclusion that Marie has a female lover, which she denies. As Nicolas goes to leave, claiming to have left something on the stove, she tells him the truth about the letter but this makes no difference.
The film continues with Francis and Marie re-establishing their friendship and Nicolas moving away to Asia. In the final scene, they are again at a party, looking for potential lovers.

