Just_Wright
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 101
Director: Sanaa Hamri
Cast: Queen Latifah,Common,Paula Patton,James Pickens Jr.,Phylicia Rashad,Pam Grier,Laz Alonso,Mehcad Brooks,Michael Landes,Dwight Howard,Dwyane Wade,Rashard Lewis,Bobby Simmons Jr.,Jalen Rose,Rajon Rondo,John Legend,
Content: When NBA All-Star Scott McKnight (Common) suffers a debilitating injury, tough-talking physical therapist Leslie Wright (Queen Latifah) pulls out all the stops to get him back on his game. But their professional relationship turns personal when Leslie finds herself falling for Scott, and discovers the feeling may be mutual. Paula Patton co-stars in a romantic comedy penned by Michael Elliot and directed by Sanaa Hamri. 
Wiki info: 
Just Wright is a 2010 American romantic comedy film starring Queen Latifah and Common that tells the story of a physical therapist who falls in love with a professional basketball player.
The film was received mixed reviews by critics.
Leslie Wright (Queen Latifah) is a straight-shooting physical therapist and die-hard basketball fan who is tired of being a guy's best friend. She and her god-sister, Morgan (Paula Patton), are living together; Morgan dreams of becoming an NBA trophy wife. After a Nets basketball game Leslie helps star player, Scott McKnight (Common), at a gas station. He offers to open her door for her (showing her that he is a true gentleman), but the task proves difficult as the door to her old car is stiff and hard to open. She has a dent in the side of her door that she refuses to get fixed because her grandfather gave her the car and he had a dimple in his left cheek just like the car. He invites her to his birthday party, where she shows up with Morgan. He meets Morgan and suddenly takes an interest in her. After a quick relationship, Scott proposes to her. At the 2009 NBA All-Star Game (which was filmed at the Izod Center even though the game really took place at the US Airways Center in Phoenix.), Scott becomes injured, an injury that could possibly ruin his career. Morgan suggests that he enlist the help of Leslie, since she did not approve of his previous gorgeous physical therapist, so Leslie moves into their home. Rumors circle that Scott's career would end quickly if he did not recover by the playoffs, which causes Morgan to leave Scott through a letter. Scott becomes extremely upset, discouraged to continue recovery. Leslie encourages him and helps him get back in the game, the two of them spending a lot of time together. Scott is able to return to the NBA right before the playoffs, winning his first game back. Leslie and Scott decide to spend a romantic evening together , but Leslie wakes up to Morgan at Scott's door hoping to reconcile. Leslie quickly moves out as Scott and Morgan reunite. Because Leslie helped Scott recover in such a short amount of time, many teams offered her the position as an athletic trainer. Most likely to make the Sixers her new team, Scott quickly stops her when he realizes that he is in love with her. They are shown a year later, with Leslie working as one of the Nets team athletic trainers and she and Scott are now married.

