Alfie_Darling
Released Year: 1975
Running time: 98
Director: Ken Hughes
Cast: Alan Price,Jill Townsend,Paul Copley,Joan Collins,Sheila White,Annie Ross,Hannah Gordon,Rula Lenska,Minah Bird,Derek Smith,Vicki Michelle,Brian Wilde,
Content: Alfie is an incorrigible womanizer who uses his trucking job as a way to commute from tryst to tryst as he makes his way across the women of the nation. Then he meets Townsend, a magazine editor. They have a lot in common; that is, she's as callous and fond of one-night stands as he is. An unlikely relationship builds between the two. But can they stick together? And what other dangers are waiting in the shadows? This sequel to the 1966 hit Alfie is also known as Oh Alfie on video. 
Wiki info: 
Alfie Darling is a 1975 British comedy drama film directed by Ken Hughes. It is the sequel to the 1966 film Alfie. This time Alan Price takes over Michael Caine's role of Alfie.
It based on the novel of the same name by Bill Naughton (who wrote the play upon which the first film was based).
After experiencing a failure in the ending of the last film, Alfie - now working as a 1970s' cross London-France HGV driver alongside Bakey (Paul Copley) - decides to get back to his old self. And his new occupation provides new opportunities to do so. The film starts as Bakey drives the truck through customs in France, while Alfie has sex with an English hitchhiker (Vicki Michelle) in the back until the customs' officer catches her topless.
When arriving at their destination, he spots a woman (Jill Townsend) in a sports car. They start racing until the police breaks it up. Alfie soon finds comfort by flirting with the married waitress Louise (Rula Lenska), who takes him to her apartment. During the night, her husband returns from his fishing trip, but Bakey, outside in the truck, sounds the horn as a warning.
Alfie later catches up with the woman from the race and learns her name is Abby and that she is a sophisticated magazine editor. When she turns him down, he decides he proceeds to stalk her until, after another car chase, she finally agrees to a date. When Alfie gets his wish, he can't perform and leaves her apartment in anger.
This failure causes him to use his little black book to contact various women with whom he has a casual relationship. However, some of these encounters lead him into trouble. He faces the consequences of an encounter with Norma (Sheila White) and the wrath of the husband of older Fay (Joan Collins), when said husband discovers Alfie's wallet under their bed.
With Fay's encouragement, Alfie apologizes to Abby about leaving her apartment in a huff and asks her for a proper dinner. He tells her what he never says to his lovers - that he loves her and wants her to marry him. She agrees. She then has to take a quick work related flight.
When Abby leaves for the airport, Alfie is bed-ridden due to back pains. When his older neighbor, Claire (Annie Ross), hears from another neighbor that Alfie can't move, she lets herself into his apartment and serves him tea. When Alfie comments on Claire's perfume, she reveals her true feelings for him by suddenly entering his bed and taking her top off. She ignores his protests but then her attempts to mount him fix his back, and he escapes before she succeeds in making actual intimate contact.
Alfie catches Abby before her flight takes off, and they decide to marry the following day. In the morning Alfie waits for her in the airport, not having heard that her plane has crashed without any survivors. Upon learning the news Alfie drives to the crash site and cries over the wreckage.

