The_Decoy_Bride
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 89
Director: Sheree Folkson
Cast: Kelly Macdonald plays Katie Nic Aodh,David Tennant plays James Arber,Alice Eve plays Lara Tyler,Michael Urie plays Steve Korbitz,Sally Phillips plays Emma,Maureen Beattie plays Iseabail Nic Aodh,Federico Castelluccio plays Marco Ballani,Dylan Moran plays Charley,Jeannie Fisher plays Aileen,Hamish Clark plays Angus,James Fleet plays Laird,Sally Howitt plays Muireen,Hannah Bourne plays Chloe,Matthew Chalmers plays Callum,Rony Bridges plays Roan,Victoria Grove plays Anais Anais,Alisha Bailey plays Surelle,Alex Childs plays TV Host,Tony Roper plays Reverend McDonough,Ben Addis plays Journalist 1,William Owen plays Journalist 2,Calum MacNab plays Journalist 3,Ross Armstrong plays 1st Paparazzo,Samuel Roukin plays 2nd Paparazzo,Patrick Regis plays Hollywood Minister,Danny Bage plays Hotel Doorman,Tona Gray plays Elderly Woman,Gil Kolirin plays Security Guard,Robert Fyfe plays Ancient Crofter,Maryann Turner plays Ancient Crofter's Wife,Achara Kirk plays Tourist,
Content: A jilted bride enters into an unusual arrangement with a Hollywood actress and gets a second chance at true love in this romance starring David Tennant and Kelly MacDonald. Abandoned at the altar on the biggest day of her life, Katie (MacDonald) retreats back to her home on a small Scottish island and prepares to live the rest of her life alone. Shortly thereafter, however, Hollywood icon Lara Tyler (Alice Eve) decides that the very same island would be the ideal setting for her upcoming marriage to her handsome fiancee James (Tennant). But try as Lara might to keep the location of her nuptials a secret, the paparazzi soon descend on the island cameras in hand, eager to get the scoop. In a clever bid to trick the opportunistic shutterbugs, Lara recruits Katie to pose as the bride and walk down the aisle. As the big day draws near, however, everyone involved discovers just how complicated true love can be. 
Wiki info: 
The Decoy Bride is a British romantic comedy film written by comedian Sally Phillips and Neil Jaworski, and starring David Tennant, Alice Eve and Kelly Macdonald. The film was made by Ecosse Films.
Lara Tyler (Alice Eve) is one of the most famous film stars around, but all she wants to do is marry her fiance, writer James Arber (David Tennant). Besieged by paparazzi, especially Marco Ballani (Federico Castelluccio), who is obsessed with Lara, they escape to the tiny Scottish island of Hegg to try to wed in peace. However, when the paparazzi track them down, and with the locals smelling a payday, Lara becomes upset and runs away. In desperation her management team, led by Steve Korbitz (Michael Urie), decide to stage a fake wedding, hoping the paparazzi will fall for the scam and leave the island. Local girl Katie (Kelly Macdonald), who is nursing a broken heart, is recruited to pretend to be Lara. But is James really sure Lara is his true love?

