Tonight_You're_Mine
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 80
Director: David Mackenzie
Cast: Luke Treadaway,Natalia Tena,Mathew Baynton,Gavin Mitchell,Sophie Wu,Rebecca Benson,Ruta Gedmintas,Alastair MacKenzie,Kari Corbett,Clare Kelly,Cora Bisset (billed,Joseph Mydell,Gilly Gilchrist,
Content: Can a pair of handcuffs turn two enemies into lovers? Adam (Luke Treadaway) is the lead singer of successful retro-pop group the Make, who are booked to headline a high-profile music festival in Scotland. He arrives at the festival with his keyboard player Tyko (Mathew Baynton) and socialite girlfriend Lake (Ruta Gedmintas), but while trying to track down his manager, he happens upon Morello (Natalia Tena), the frontwoman for the all-female punk band the Dirty Pinks. Morello doesn't think much of Adam and his music, and the feeling is mutual on his part; the two are soon engaged in a fierce argument that attracts the attention of a renegade preacher attending the festival. To teach them a lesson about cooperation and compromise, the preacher handcuffs them together and then throws away the key. Stuck with one another until they can find a locksmith, Adam and Morello are not happy at first with this arrangement -- especially since it means performing together on-stage -- but as the day wears on, the two musicians find they have more in common than they thought, and Morello begins to wonder if she's really happy with her boyfriend Mark (Alastair Mackenzie). You Instead was shot on location at Scotland's annual T in the Park music festival, with most of the scenes filmed while the event was taking place. 
Wiki info: 
You Instead (alternate U.S. title Tonight You're Mine) is a 2011 British "Rock 'n' roll romantic comedy" written by Thomas Leveritt and directed by David Mackenzie. The film stars Luke Treadaway, Natalia Tena, Gavin Mitchell and Alastair MacKenzie. Set at T in the Park music festival and shot by Sigma Films, two feuding rock stars are handcuffed together at a festival where they are due to perform.
The story centers around two characters Adam (Luke Treadaway) and Morello (Natalia Tena) who end up handcuffed whilst appearing at T in the Park. Adam is the lead singer with successful pop group The Make who are booked to perform at popular music festival in Scotland. While looking for his manager he happens upon Morello, the lead singer for the all girl punk band The Dirty Pinks. The two do not get along and end up arguing, while doing so attracting the attention of a preacher who decides to teach them both a lesson in Cooperation and Compromise. He handcuffs the two together and disposes of the key, leaving the two stuck together until the handcuffs can be removed. This also means that the two must perform together, an arrangement that both are unhappy with. But over time they both see that they have more in common than first thought and Morello begins to wonder whether she is truly happy with her boyfriend Mark (Alastair Mackenzie).

