Madame_de...
Released Year: 1953
Running time: 100
Director: Max Ophüls
Cast: Charles Boyer,Danielle Darrieux,Vittorio De Sica,Jean Debucourt,Jean Galland,Mireille Perrey,Paul Azaïs,Josselin,Hubert Noël,Lia Di Leo,
Content: Max Ophüls' masterpiece stars Danielle Darrieux as the titular Madame Louise de..., who in the film's opening scenes is forced to discreetly sell a pair of earrings, a gift from her military officer husband Andre (Charles Boyer), in order to make good on her debts. After she claims the earrings to be lost, the story of their possible theft hits the newspapers, prompting the jeweler who bought them (Jean Debucourt) to secretly sell them back to Andre, who then gives him to his mistress Lola (Lia Di Leo) as she prepares to leave for a holiday in Constantinople. There, the earrings again change hands as Lola pawns them to cover her gambling losses. They are then purchased by Donati, an Italian diplomat (Vittorio de Sica) on his way to France to meet with Andre. Of course, the earrings soon find their way back to Louise. 
Wiki info: 
The Earrings of Madame de... (French title: Madame de...) is a 1953 drama film directed by Max Ophüls. It was adapted from Louise Leveque de Vilmorin's period novel by Ophüls, Marcel Archard and Annette Wadement. This film is considered as a masterpiece of the 1950s French cinema. Andrew Sarris once called it "the most perfect film ever made". Ophüls said that the story's construction attracted him to the project, stating "there is always the same axis around which the action continually turns like a carousel. A tiny, scarcely visible axis: a pair of earrings."
The film opens with the titular Madame, Louise (Danielle Darrieux), whose surname is never given. She is a spoiled woman married to a General, Andre (Charles Boyer), who has amassed considerable debts due to her lifestyle. To settle them, she chooses to sell her large diamond earrings, a wedding present from her husband. It is hinted that Louise and Andre's marriage is less than intimate, as they sleep in separate beds and the General is shown to have a mistress. Louise attempts to disguise the disappearance of the earrings by pretending to have lost them at the opera. The search for them eventually reaches the newspaper, suggesting they may have been stolen, which in turn prompts the jeweler who bought them to go to the General directly and offer to sell them back, which he accepts. Rather than confront his wife, the General decides to give the earrings to his mistress, who is leaving for Constantinople.
The mistress however accumulates a substantial gambling debt, and is forced to sell them. They are later purchased by an Italian baron, Fabrizio Donati (Vittorio De Sica), who is on his way to be a diplomat in the same city that Louise and Andre live in. At this time, the General has just gone away to war. At a series of chance encounters, Donati meets Louise and becomes infatuated with her, later meeting with her at a ballroom where they dance together. This evolves into an emotional affair, represented in a montage of dancing scenes where she and the baron fall in love. This sequence, with its glittering costumes and furnishings, and swirling camera work, was a celebrated example of Ophüls' style. The General returns from his campaign, which prompts Louise to stop seeing Donati. During a hunting trip with her husband, she witness's Donati fall from his horse, which causes her to faint. This is due to an unknown medical condition she was born with, described only has having a "weak heart." This event makes the General suspicious about her relationship to Donati.
Donati later brings a gift to Louise at her home: roses, and the very earrings she sold at the start of the film. What she had cast aside so easily before suddenly has real meaning to her. In order to be able to wear them again in her husband's presence, Louise creates a ruse that they had been misplaced in one of her gloves the entire time, making a big show of "finding" them in front of the General. He knows she is lying, but says nothing. Later at another dance, the General takes the earrings from Louise and then quietly takes Donati aside and confronts him about the earrings, revealing their origin. He then gives the earrings to Donati and tells him to sell them back to the jeweler, so that the General may buy them back once more to give to Louise. Before departing, Donati informs Louise he can no longer see her and expresses his hurt at her lying to him. Following this night, Louise falls into a deep depression. The General presents her with the earrings he has bought back, and informs her that her unhappiness is her own fault. He tells her she must give the earrings away to his niece who has just given birth, to which Louise tearfully complies. The General's niece later is forced to sell the earrings to the jeweler to pay off her husbands debts, and once more the jeweler offers to sell them to the General, but this time he angrily refuses. Louise goes to the jeweler herself and offers to sell many of her precious items in order to buy the earrings back, which he accepts. She later informs the General of what she has done. In his anguish at having lost her love (or perhaps never having it), the General goes to the club were Donati is and challenges him to a pistol duel.
Louise pleads with Donati not to go through the duel, as the General is shown to be an excellent shot and will surely kill him. Donati refuses to back out, and later meets with the General in the woods with officials for the duel. Meanwhile Louise goes to a church to pray that the saints save Donati, and leaves the earrings as an offering. She then races through the woods with her servant to the location of the duel. The officials inform the two men that the General is allowed to fire first because he is the "offended party." He takes aim at Donati, who stands unflinching. Louise is shown ascending a hill toward the duel when a shot is heard. She collapses in shock, and slumps against a tree. Her servant tries to wake her but she does not respond, and runs off towards the men to ask for help as the scene fades. The final shot of the film shows the earrings venerated at the church in a glass case, with a card that reads "don de Madame de..."

