Romance_&_Cigarettes
Released Year: 2005
Running time: 106
Director: John Turturro
Cast: James Gandolfini,Susan Sarandon,Kate Winslet,Steve Buscemi,Bobby Cannavale,Mandy Moore,Mary-Louise Parker,Aida Turturro,Christopher Walken,Barbara Sukowa,Elaine Stritch,Eddie Izzard,Amy Sedaris,P.J. Brown,Adam LeFevre,Tonya Pinkins,Cady Huffman,Kumar Pallana,
Content: Actor and filmmaker John Turturro wrote and directed this emotionally resonant blend of music and drama. Nick Murder (James Gandolfini) is an ironworker who has been married for years to Kitty (Susan Sarandon), who works as a seamstress and is the mother of Nick's three daughters. While Nick loves his wife, his head is turned by Tula (Kate Winslet), a sexy salesgirl at a lingerie shop, and soon they're having a passionate affair. When Kitty finds out about Nick's infidelity, she becomes enraged and kicks him out of the house, forcing him to decide what he really wants out of life and what is most important to him. Along the way, many of the characters in the film periodically turn to their favorite songs to explain and amplify their emotions, lip-synching along with the original recordings. Romance & Cigarettes also stars Steve Buscemi, Mandy Moore, Christopher Walken, Eddie Izzard, and Elaine Stritch. 
Wiki info: 
Romance & Cigarettes is a 2005 American musical romantic comedy film written and directed by John Turturro. The film stars an ensemble cast, including James Gandolfini, Susan Sarandon, Kate Winslet, Steve Buscemi, Bobby Cannavale, Mandy Moore, Mary-Louise Parker, Aida Turturro, Christopher Walken, Barbara Sukowa, Elaine Stritch, Eddie Izzard, and Amy Sedaris.
Nick Murder (James Gandolfini) is an iron worker who has been married for years to Kitty (Susan Sarandon), who works as a seamstress and is the mother of Nick's three daughters. While Nick loves his wife, his head is turned by Tula (Kate Winslet), a sexy lingerie salesgirl, and soon they're having a passionate affair. When Kitty discovers the infidelity, she becomes enraged and kicks him out, forcing him to decide what he really wants from life and what's most important to him. Along the way, many of the characters periodically turn to their favorite songs to explain and amplify their emotions, lip-synching along with the original recordings.

