The_Genesis_Code
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 138
Director: C. Thomas Howell
Cast: Logan Bartholomew,Kelsey Sanders,Jerry Zandstra,C.R. Lewis,Ernest Borgnine,Louise Fletcher,Fred Dalton Thompson,Lance Henriksen,Rance Howard,Ben Murphy,Catherine Hicks,Susan Blakely,Rich Franklin,Adam Chambers,Lauren Mae Shafer,
Content: This religious drama stars Kelsey Sanders as Kerry Wells, a college student and aspiring journalist who also happens to be a Born Again Christian. She strikes up a budding romance with fellow undergrad Blake Truman (Logan Bartholomew), a collegiate hockey superstar and one of the most popular men on campus. As the two grow ever closer, however, Kerry learns that Blake is still reeling from a painful secret in his past. When Kerry suggests that Blake pray and ask God to relieve his emotional burdens, Blake - an atheist - scoffs at the suggestion, insisting that the miracles of modern science disprove the validity of the Bible. Meanwhile, Kerry finds her faith challenged from another source, and decides to weigh scientific discoveries against the account of creation in Genesis - with surprising results. 
Wiki info: 
The Genesis Code is a 2010 American drama film directed by C. Thomas Howell and Patrick Read Johnson, and written by Michael W. Leighton.
Kerry Wells (Kelsey Sanders), a college student journalist and committed Christian has been assigned to do a story on Blake Truman (Logan Bartholomew) the college's hockey superstar. Blake struggles with personal crisis but rejects Kerry's reliance on her faith. He is convinced that modern science has disproved the Bible and especially the Genesis story of creation. Together they discover that the creation story and science may be in perfect accord.
The Genesis Code takes on three current social and cultural issues: Evolution vs. creation, End-of-life decisions and discrimination against Christians on the college campus. Though this becomes a romance story, it gives a look to the age old question of how science and a book of the Bible, Genesis, may both be correct and told in a format that a normal layperson will understand.

