Om_Shanti_Om
Released Year: 2007
Running time: 0
Director: Farah Khan
Cast: Shahrukh Khan,Deepika Padukone,Arjun Rampal,Shreyas Talpade,Kirron Kher,Javed Sheikh,Asawari Joshi,Yuvika Chaudhary,Bindu Desai,Satish Shah,Shawar Ali,Rani Mukerji,Zayed Khan,Vidya Balan,Jeetendra,Tusshar Kapoor,Priyanka Chopra,Shilpa Shetty,Dharmendra,Shabana Azmi,Urmila Matondkar,Karisma Kapoor,Arbaaz Khan,Malaika Arora,Dino Morea,Amrita Arora,Juhi Chawla,Aftab Shivdasani,Tabu,Govinda,Mithun Chakraborty,Kajol,Preity Zinta,Bobby Deol,Rekha,Ritesh Deshmukh,Salman Khan,Saif Ali Khan,Sanjay Dutt,Lara Dutta,Sunil Shetty,Abhishek Bachchan,Akshay Kumar,Amisha Patel,Amitabh Bachchan,Arshad Warsi,Bappi Lahiri,Bipasha Basu,Chunkey Pandey,Dhananjay Singh,Dia Mirza,Farah Khan in the opening of the film.,Feroz Khan,Gauri Khan,Hrithik Roshan,Karan Johar,Soumya Seth,Koena Mitra,Mayur Puri,Rakesh Roshan,Rishi Kapoor,Shabana Azmi,Subhash Ghai,Vishal Dadlani,V. Manikandan,Yash Chopra,Hubba Mar Sufi Lami,
Content: Love and dreams follow two starry-eyed actors across three decades and two incarnations in this splashy Hindi musical. It's the early '70s, and Om Prakash Makhija (Shah Rukh Khan) is a young would-be actor who has been playing bit parts in Bollywood musicals while looking for his big break. Om's ambition is to become a film star and win the heart of beautiful screen siren Shantipriya (Deepika Padukone), and his pal Pappu (Shreyas Talpade) and his mother, Bela (Kirron Kher), both encourage him not to give up on his dreams. One day, Om meets Shantipriya on a movie set, and he feels as if destiny is finally smiling on him, but when he overhears her having an argument with studio chief Mukesh Mehra (Arjun Rampal), Om senses things are not as they should be. Before Om can decide what to make of his misgivings, the studio burns to the ground, claiming the lives of Om and Shantipriya. Thirty years later, a bit of Om's spirit seems to live on in Om Kapoor (also played by Shah Rukh Khan), a popular film actor with a large ego and a fear of flame who was born the day the old studio burned down. Despite his fame, Om is lonely, at least until he meets Sandhya (also played by Deepika Padukone), a shy but eager would-be actress looking for her chance to become a star. Om Shanti Om was directed and co-written by Farah Khan, who was a top choreographer in the Indian film industry before moving up to the director's chair, and features guest spots from a number of Bollywood's greatest stars, a few appearing in the form of digital recreations taken from films of the '70s. 
Wiki info: 
Om Shanti Om is a Bollywood musical romantic comedy film directed and choreographed by Farah Khan. It stars Shahrukh Khan and Deepika Padukone in the lead roles while Arjun Rampal, Shreyas Talpade, and Kirron Kher feature in supporting roles. More than forty-two well-known Bollywood stars appear in the course of the film, including thirty of them (not including the stars of the film) in one song alone. The film is set in the 1970s and 2000s; it pays tribute to, and pokes fun at the, Indian film industry of both these eras.
It is inspired by Rishi Kapoor's 1980 Bollywood film Karz and borrows many elements from it, including the title of the film which is named after one of the songs and for a brief moment, Rishi Kapoor can be seen dancing to the original song.
The film was released in 2000 prints worldwide making it the largest Indian cinematic release at the time. Om Shanti Om released on 9 November 2007 to mostly positive reviews from critics and record breaking box office collections. It grossed 149&#160;crore (US$27&#160;million) worldwide and thus became the highest-grossing Hindi film of all-time at the time of its release.
Om Prakash Makhija is a junior artist in the 1970s Bollywood film industry. He and his friend Pappu are trying to succeed as leading actors. Om's mother, Bela Makhija, herself a junior artist, inspires and encourages her son to succeed. He is in love with film actress Shanti Priya. One evening, Om views the premiere of Shanti's film Dreamy Girl, posing as Manoj Kumar. Later that night, Om becomes drunk and describes his vision of himself as a famous, wealthy film star to Pappu and some local children.
While shooting of a film wherein Om is acting as a scene-extra, he notices Shanti trapped in the middle of a fire scene where the fire has escaped control. He saves her and they become friends. One day, he accidentally overhears the conversation between Shanti and Mukesh Mehra, a film producer. Om is brutally shocked to learn that Mukesh and Shanti had married in secret and that Shanti is about to have a baby. Mukesh Mehra promises to do something for Shanti.
One night, Om notices Mukesh escorting Shanti to the set of their soon-to-be-made film Om Shanti Om. Inside, Mukesh tells Shanti that he will cancel the film, reveal their marriage to the public, and have a grand wedding on the spectacular set. Shanti is pleased, while Om returns back, happy for her. However, now it is revealed that Mukesh has no intentions of fulfilling his promise. He traps Shanti on the set and sets it on fire.
Om sees the studio burning and attempts to rescue Shanti, but Mukesh's guards attack him, and he is badly injured. Om pursues despite this, and enters the burning building. He sees Shanti and runs towards her, but and explosion blasts him outside the building. Om is hit by a car owned by Rajesh Kapoor, a well-known actor who is taking his wife to the hospital as she is in labour. Rajesh takes Om too, but Om succumbs to his injuries in the hospital itself and dies. Moments later, a son is born to Lovely and Rajesh, who is named Om, and implied to be Om Prakash's reincarnation.
The film then cuts to Om Kapoor's adulthood. Nicknamed O.K., he is a popular movie star and lives an extravagant, luxurious life that Om Prakash dreamt of. He experiences pyrophobia and it is shown through some scenes that he subconsciously inherits Om Prakash's memories, as well as his appearance. When making a speech of acceptance for an award, O.K. unexpectedly recalls the drunken speech that Om Prakash had made to Pappu, and delivers the same to the assembly who have awarded him.
Pappu listens to O.K.'s speech on television and is convinced that his friend has returned. At a celebration of his award, O.K. is introduced by his father to Mukesh Mehra, who has been producing films in Hollywood for the last twenty five years. Upon seeing him, O.K. recalls everything. He later reunites with Bela and Pappu and conspires to avenge Shanti's death by making Mukesh confess his sin. O.K. convinces Mukesh to restart shooting of Om Shanti Om.
Pappu and O.K. start a hunt for a girl who can pass off as Shanti. The plan is to convince Mukesh that Shanti is haunting the set and scare him, so that he will confess. O.K. finds Sandhya aka Sandy, a complete doppelganger of Shanti. Sandy is accordingly trained and the plan is finally put into action. Throughout the film shooting, O.K. and his friends arrange incidents to remind Mukesh of his crime, mostly by giving him startling glimpses of Sandy.
However, Mukesh decides to go back to Hollywood. Realizing that Mukesh might try to make a run for it, O.K. tells him that the music launch is going to take place that night. Mukesh reluctantly stays, while O.K. has to make it look real to Mukesh. However, O.K.'s plan hits a snag when Mukesh examines the film reels and notices that something is wrong. During the music launch of the film, O.K. taunts Mukesh by revealing, through a song, the extent to which he knows the story of Shanti's death. Mukesh sees Sandy again, but this time he pursues her.
Sandy bleeds after being scratched, thus confirming Mukesh's suspicions that she was not Shanti's ghost. Just as Mukesh is about to walk out, the chandelier nearly collapses on him. After some time, it is revealed that the chandelier didn't fall down fully. O.K. and Mukesh confront each other with their knowledge of each other's actions. An emboldened Mukesh tells O.K. that the charade is over. Mukesh also tells him that to prove that Shanti was murdered, her dead body has to be recovered.
Here, Pappu who is listening to the conversation from the studio, tries to run to the set, but gets stuck in the studio itself. Meanwhile, O.K. sees Sandy making an entrance on the stage and confronting Mukesh. O.K. tries to stop her, but she ignores him, revealing that Mukesh came back after the fire extinguished naturally that night. She also tells him that she was still alive when he found her and buried her in the studio right under where the chandelier is facing now. Mukesh realizes that only Shanti could have known this and attacks her in panic.
O.K. enters in a scuffle with him, resulting in a fire on the studio. O.K. somehow fights his pyrophobia and shoots Mukesh in his leg. Just as he is about to kill Mukesh, Sandy stops him. She tells him that Mukesh will pay, but not through his hands. She looks at the chandelier, dangling precariously. The chandelier falls on Mukesh, killing him instantly. After looking at Sandy with confusion, the studio door opens forcefully. O.K. looks back to see Pappu, and Sandy.
O.K. finally recognizes that the figure who challenged Mukesh is actually the real Shanti Priya's ghost. This also explains some supernatural incidents that O.K. and his friends had not set up. O.K. raises his hand to wave at the love of his past life; among the flames, Shanti smiles at him, with a tear at her eye. Sandy then goes to Om, apologizing she didn't come to scare Mukesh. While Om hugs Sandy he looks at Shanti who goes up the stairs and disappears into the light and is gone forever. The ends credits come up as a film premiere.

