Daydream_Nation
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 98
Director: Michael Goldbach
Cast: Kat Dennings,Reece Thompson,Andie MacDowell,Josh Lucas,Rachel Blanchard,Quinn Lord,Natasha Calis,
Content: A girl looking for kicks gets a whole lot more than she bargained for in a singularly curious town in this dark comedy. Caroline Wexler (Kat Dennings) is a clever but cynical 17-year-old whose father is still adjusting to the death of his wife. Caroline's dad takes a new job and they move to a strange community where the sky is always dark thanks to an industrial fire that's been burning for several months and isn't going to be put out anytime soon. Caroline doesn't have much use for her backward drug-addled classmates, and so to relieve her boredom she sets out to seduce Mr. Anderson (Josh Lucas), the best-looking man on the school's faculty. While Mr. Anderson tries to avoid responding to Caroline's blunt sexual overtures, it isn't long before he succumbs to her charms and is sleeping with his new student. But Caroline's new romance turns into a romantic triangle when Thurston (Reece Thompson), one of her stoner classmates, falls head over heels for her and she gives him a chance to impress her. Before long, Thurston is declaring Caroline the love of his life, Mr. Anderson is angry over having a rival for her affections, and the local serial killer begins to make their presence known, picking off the town's teenagers one by one. Also featuring Andie MacDowell and Ted Whittall, Daydream Nation was the first feature film from writer and director Mike Goldbach. 
Wiki info: 
Daydream Nation is a 2010 Canadian drama film written and directed by Michael Goldbach. It stars Kat Dennings, Reece Thompson and Josh Lucas. The film premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 10, 2010.
Seventeen-year-old Caroline Wexler (Kat Dennings) and her father move from the city to a small town where an industrial fire burns endlessly and everyone in her new high school seems to be permanently stoned. One of Caroline's classmates, Thurston (Reece Thompson), quickly falls for her after they first meet. Caroline, however, is attracted to her English teacher Mr. Anderson (Josh Lucas), and the two quickly begin an affair. On Halloween, Thurston and his best friends Paul (Landon Liboiron), Charles (Jesse Reid), and Craig (Calum Worthy) spend most of the day getting stoned and inhaling cleaning products which later cause Craig to have a violent seizure during health class. Afterwards, Mr. Anderson cancels his plans with Caroline in order to help the health teacher Ms. Budge (Rachel Blanchard). Feeling upset, Caroline goes out with Thurston where they end up having sex in her car. The next day, Mr. Anderson apologizes to her, but says that their relationship must be as discreet as possible. Caroline eventually realizes that Mr.Anderson is deeply dysfunctional, and breaks off the relationship in favour of Thurston. In return, Mr. Anderson does everything to sabotage the budding romance, and Caroline's life descends into chaos. Meanwhile, there is a serial killer on the loose. As Caroline and Thurston's relationship blooms, Mr. Anderson becomes even more unstable. He tells Thurston that he was just a cover, and on a rampage, Thurston breaks up with Caroline. He then goes to a Christmas party, and ends up having sex with a girl. Crying, Caroline tries to call him, and then inadvertently crashes her car into the serial killer, who dies. She is thought to be a hero and ends up getting back together with Thurston, while Mr. Anderson starts a relationship with Ms. Budge.

