Love's_Unfolding_Dream
Released Year: 2007
Running time: 88
Director: Harvey Frost
Cast: 
Content: An eighteen year old aspiring doctor finds her life suddenly pulled in two opposing directions in this period romantic drama starring Erin Cottrell and Scout Taylor-Compton. Eighteen year old Belinda Tyler (Taylor-Compton) lives in the quiet western town of Anderson Corner. As the turn of the 20th Century draws near Belinda recognizes that she must begin to build her future. While campaigning to convince the local physician to grant her an apprenticeship, Belinda suddenly finds her attentions drifting towards a handsome New York lawyer. Before long Belinda is hopelessly in love with the dashing newcomer, but she knows that all he wants is a traditional family. Is it possible for a girl to have more than one dream in life, and even if so, is it realistic to believe you can truly have everything you ever wanted? 
Wiki info: 
Love's Unfolding Dream is a Christian Drama and the sixth TV movie based on a series of books by Janette Oke and second to air in 2007. It originally aired on Hallmark Channel on December 15, 2007 and was produced for Hallmark by Larry Levinson Productions. It was directed by Harvey Frost. It is the sixth movie in an ongoing series that includes Love Comes Softly (2003), Love's Enduring Promise (2004), Love's Long Journey (2005), and Love's Abiding Joy (2006), Love's Unending Legacy (2007), Love Takes Wing (2009), and Love Finds a Home (2009), as well as the 2011 prequels Love Begins, Love's Everlasting Courage, and Love's Christmas Journey.
In a time when and place where women were not usually permitted careers, especially in the medical field, Belinda Tyler (Scout Taylor-Compton) deeply wants to be a doctor and feels that God has called her to be one. She displays her abilities while helping out a local doctor and caring for Mrs. Stafford-Smith (Nancy Linehan Charles),an elderly woman who recently had a stroke.
While Belinda nurses Mrs. Stafford-Smith back to health and helps her regain the use of her right arm, she meets Drew Simpson (Patrick Levis), the nephew of a deceased neighbor. He has come to town to prepare his uncle's farm for sale. Once that's done, he will return to New York to join his father's law practice; he has no wish to stay in this small, unsophisticated town.
But after meeting Belinda, he has second thoughts. She also feels something for him, but her life plan is to become a doctor, then move back home to provide medical care to her family and neighbors. Although most women of the time only married and had children, Belinda wants more. She has a great mind for medicine and also feels called to it by God. She doesn't see how a relationship with Drew would work, especially when Mrs. Stafford-Smith offers to put her through medical school in Boston. She informs Drew of her plan and prepares to leave. But after Belinda's grandfather shares how he recognized his feelings for wife Marty, Drew realizes that he cannot live without Belinda. Meanwhile, Belinda's mother and grandmother counsel her about her future and advise her to pray.
Just as Belinda boards the stagecoach, Drew arrives and tells her he loves her and is willing to practice law in Boston while she's in medical school. Once she becomes a doctor, they will move back to this small town together if that is what she wants. He asks her to marry him.
Knowing she feels the same way about Drew, Belinda finally admits her feelings and accepts his marriage proposal. She and Drew are married with her family and friends present before they move to Boston together.

