Top_Gun
Released Year: 1986
Running time: 109
Director: Tony Scott
Cast: Tom Cruise,Anthony Edwards,Kelly McGillis,Meg Ryan,Val Kilmer,Rick Rossovich,Tom Skerritt,Michael Ironside,John Stockwell,Tim Robbins,Whip Hubley,Barry Tubb,David Patterson,Adrian Pasdar,Clarence Gilyard, Jr.,James Tolkan,Duke Stroud,Linda Rae Jurgens,
Content: Devil-may-care navy pilot Pete Mitchell (Tom Cruise) is sent to Miramar Naval Air Station for advanced training. Here he vies with Tom Kasansky (Val Kilmer) for the coveted "Top Gun" award. When not so occupied, Mitchell carries on a romance with civilian consultant Charlotte Blackwood (Kelly McGillis). Shaken up by the death of a friend, Mitchell loses the Top Gun honor to Kasansky. Worried that he may have lost his nerve, Mitchell is given a chance to redeem himself during a tense international crisis involving a crippled US vessel and a flock of predatory enemy planes. The story wasn't new in 1986, but Top Gun scored with audiences on the strength of its visuals, especially the vertigo-inducing aerial sequences. The film made more money than any other film in 1986 and even spawned a 1989 takeoff, Hot Shots. An Academy Award went to the Giogio Moroder-Tom Whitlock song "Take My Breath Away." 
Wiki info: 
Top Gun is a 1986 American action drama film directed by Tony Scott, and produced by Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer, in association with the Paramount Pictures company. The screenplay was written by Jim Cash and Jack Epps, Jr., and was inspired by the article "Top Guns" written by Ehud Yonay for California magazine.
The film stars Tom Cruise, Kelly McGillis, Val Kilmer, Anthony Edwards, and Tom Skerritt. Cruise plays Lieutenant Pete "Maverick" Mitchell, a young Naval aviator aboard the aircraft carrier USS&#160;Enterprise. He and his Radar Intercept Officer (RIO) Nick "Goose" Bradshaw (Edwards) are given the chance to train at the Navy's Fighter Weapons School. The film depicts Maverick's progress through the training, his romance with a female instructor (McGillis), a tragic death of a close friend in a fatal training accident, followed by his overcoming a crisis of confidence and survivor guilt, and the shooting down of several enemy aircraft of unlisted nationality in a dangerous "dogfight".
Top Gun had a six-day IMAX 3D theatrical re-release on February 8, 2013.
United States Naval Aviator Lieutenant Pete "Maverick" Mitchell (Tom Cruise) flies the F-14A Tomcat off USS&#160;Enterprise&#160;(CVN-65), with Radar Intercept Officer ("RIO") Lieutenant (Junior Grade) Nick "Goose" Bradshaw (Anthony Edwards). At the start of the film, wingman "Cougar" (John Stockwell) and his radar intercept officer "Merlin" (Tim Robbins), intercept MiG-28s over the Indian Ocean. During the engagement, one of the MiGs manages to get missile lock on Cougar. While Maverick realizes that the MiG "(would) have fired by now", if he really meant to fight, and drives off the MiGs, Cougar is too shaken afterward to land, despite being low on fuel. Maverick defies orders and shepherds Cougar back to the carrier, despite also being low on fuel. After they land, Cougar retires ("turns in his wings"), stating that he has been holding on "too tight" and has lost "the edge", almost orphaning his newborn child, whom he has never seen. Although disapproving of Maverick's reckless flying and repeated violation of rules, the Enterprise's Commander, Air Group "Stinger" (James Tolkan) sends him and Goose—now his top crew—to attend the Top Gun school at NAS Miramar.
Maverick flies recklessly partially because of his father, Duke Mitchell, a Naval Aviator with VF-51 aboard the USS&#160;Oriskany&#160;(CV-34) during the Vietnam War. The elder Mitchell died on November 5, 1965 when his McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom II was shot down, and the official story, which Maverick refuses to believe, is that Duke made a mistake. Goose is cautious and devoted to his wife, Carole (Meg Ryan), and child. The two officers are nonetheless close friends and effective partners, with Goose as the only family Maverick has. At a bar the day before the Top Gun program starts, Maverick, assisted by Goose, unsuccessfully approaches a woman by singing "You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin'". He learns the next day that she is Charlotte "Charlie" Blackwood (Kelly McGillis), a civilian contractor described as having a Ph.D. in Astrophysics and civilian Top Gun instructor.
Maverick's reckless flying both annoys and impresses Lieutenant Commander Rick "Jester" Heatherly (Michael Ironside) and other instructors. He defeats Jester in combat, but violates two rules of engagement in the process. He continues to pursue Charlie and becomes a rival to top student LT Tom "Iceman" Kasansky (Val Kilmer)—who considers Maverick's methods dangerous and unsafe. Although outwardly critical of Maverick's tactics, Charlie eventually admits that she admires his flying but was critical because she was afraid for her credibility. They begin a romantic relationship.
During one flight, Maverick breaks off from his wingman "Hollywood" to go one-on-one with chief instructor Commander Mike "Viper" Metcalf (Tom Skerritt), described as "the (finest) fighter pilot... in the world". Although Maverick matches the older pilot move for move, Viper lasts long enough for Jester—who has defeated Hollywood off-screen—to maneuver around and "shoot" Maverick down, demonstrating the value of teamwork over individual ability.
Near the end of the program, Maverick and Iceman both chase Jester, the latter attempting to gain a missile lock on the target. Under intense pressure from Maverick, Iceman breaks off. Maverick's F-14 flies through the jet wash of Iceman's aircraft and suffers a flameout of both engines, entering a flat spin from which he cannot recover (this compressor stallspin situation was a real risk with the TF-30 engines on the F-14A), forcing him and Goose to eject. Goose ejects directly into the jettisoned aircraft canopy and breaks his neck, dying instantly.
Although the board of inquiry clears Maverick of responsibility, he feels guilty for Goose's death, losing his aggressiveness when flying. Charlie and others attempt to console him, but Maverick considers leaving the Navy. Unsure of his future, he seeks Viper's advice. Viper reveals that he served with Maverick's father in VF-51, and discloses classified details, explaining how Duke stayed in the fight after his F-4 was hit and saved three planes before he died. During the graduation party, Iceman, Hollywood, and Maverick are ordered to immediately report to Enterprise to deal with a "crisis situation", providing air support for the rescue of a stricken communications ship, the SS Layton, that has drifted into hostile waters. Maverick and Merlin are assigned to one of two F-14s as back-up for those flown by Iceman and Hollywood, despite Iceman's reservations over Maverick's state of mind. In the subsequent hostile engagement with six MiGs, Hollywood is shot down but manages to eject; Maverick is sortied alone due to catapult failure and nearly retreats after encountering circumstances similar to those that caused Goose's death. Upon finally rejoining Iceman, they shoot down four MiGs and force the others to flee, and return triumphantly to Enterprise, where the two men, with newfound respect for each other, finally become friends. Offered any assignment he chooses, Maverick decides to return to Top Gun as an instructor (which Stinger jokingly expresses horror at the thought of). Later, he is seen tossing Goose's dogtags into the ocean, signifying that he is finally free of the guilt over his death.
Sitting alone in a restaurant in downtown San Diego, Maverick hears "You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin'" playing on the jukebox and recalls meeting Charlie. She enters the bar and the two reunite.

