A_Room_With_a_View
Released Year: 2007
Running time: 86
Director: Nicholas Renton
Cast: Maggie Smith&#160;– Charlotte Bartlett,Helena Bonham-Carter&#160;– Lucy Honeychurch,Denholm Elliott&#160;– Mr. Emerson,Julian Sands&#160;– George Emerson,Simon Callow&#160;– The Reverend Mr. Beebe,Patrick Godfrey&#160;– The Reverend Mr. Eager, Chaplain of the Anglican Church in Florence,Judi Dench&#160;– Eleanor Lavish, a novelist,Fabia Drake&#160;– Miss Catharine Alan,Joan Henley&#160;– Miss Teresa Alan,Amanda Walker&#160;– The Cockney Signora,Daniel Day-Lewis&#160;– Cecil Vyse,Maria Britneva&#160;– Mrs Vyse, Cecil's mother,Rosemary Leach&#160;– Mrs Honeychurch, Lucy's mother,Rupert Graves&#160;– Freddy Honeychurch, Lucy's brother,Peter Cellier&#160;– Sir Harry Otway, a landlord,Mia Fothergill&#160;– Minnie Beebe,Kitty Aldridge&#160;– New Lucy,Brigid Erin Bates&#160;– Maid at Windy Corner,Isabella Celani&#160;– Persephone,Luigi Di Fiore&#160;– Murdered Youth,Matyelok Gibbs&#160;– New Charlotte,Mirio Guidelli&#160;– Santa Croce Guide,Freddy Korner&#160;– Mr. Floyd,Patty Lawrence&#160;– Mrs. Butterworth,Elizabeth Marangoni&#160;– Miss Pole,Peter Munt&#160;– Coachman,Lucca Rossi&#160;– Phaeton,Stefano Serboli&#160;– Fighting Youth,Phillida Sewell&#160;– Lady at Sir Harry's Garden Party,Margaret Ward&#160;– Lady at Sir Harry's Garden Party,Richard Robbins&#160;– Party Guest,James Wilby&#160;– Party Guest,
Content: A precocious Edwardian girl suffocating from the social norms is forced to choose between following her heart and obliging her family's wishes after falling for a handsome but unsuitable stranger during a trip to Italy. Based on author E.M. Forster's tale of forbidden love and scripted by Pride and Prejudice scribe Andrew Davies, director Nicholas Renton's playful period drama follows young Lucy Honeychurch as she takes a trip to Italy and exchanges a brief albeit life-altering kiss with the unsuitable George Emerson. Later, as Lucy's snooping chaperone attempts to keep her on the path laid out by her family, her engagement to the dull Cecil draws near, and her repressed feelings boil to the surface, she is taken aback to encounter the dashing object of her affections back in her homeland of England. What's a girl to do when her wedding date has been set in stone but the love of her life won't be standing at the alter? 
Wiki info: 
A Room with a View is a 1985 British drama film directed by James Ivory and produced by Ismail Merchant. The film is a close adaptation of E. M. Forster's novel of the same name, and even uses his chapter titles to divide the film into sections.
The film stars Helena Bonham Carter as a young woman in the restrictive Edwardian culture of turn-of-the-twentieth-century England and her love for a free-spirited young man. Maggie Smith, Denholm Elliott, Julian Sands, Simon Callow, Judi Dench, Daniel Day-Lewis, and Rupert Graves round out the principal cast. Elliott and Smith were nominated for Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor and Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress, but lost to Michael Caine and Dianne Wiest from Hannah and Her Sisters.
Miss Lucy Honeychurch from an English hamlet in Surrey is on holiday in Italy with her much older cousin and chaperone, Charlotte Bartlett. Charlotte is conventionally English, with an extremely restrictive personality and tends to get her way by expressing her emotions to manipulate others. Lucy has been brought up in an upper class but loving and easygoing household, and had fewer inhibitions, which creates a strong tension between Charlotte and herself. They are in contrast with the more free-thinking and free-spirited backdrop of Italy. At a small pensione Lucy meets such people as Reverend Beebe, the two Miss Alans, and the author Miss Eleanor Lavish, but most importantly, the nonconformist Mr. Emerson and his handsome, philosophical son, George, who becomes friends with Charlotte. These men, although also English, represent the forward-thinking ideals of the turn-of-the-century, seeking to leave behind the repression and caution that was the norm in Victorian times. At first, the Emersons seem strange and unfamiliar to Lucy and Charlotte. They seem sincere but unaware of finer upper class Victorian manners. Mr. Emerson offers to switch rooms with the women, who desire a window with a view. Charlotte is offended, believing him to be rude and tactless for what she perceives to be indebting them. As Lucy begins her journey to maturity, she finds herself drawn to George due to his mysterious thinking and readily expressed emotions.
A number of people residing at the pensione take a carriage ride in the country. A mischievous Italian driver gets back at Charlotte by misdirecting an unchaperoned Lucy to George in a barley field as he admires the view. George suddenly embraces and passionately kisses Lucy as she approaches him. Charlotte has followed Lucy, witnesses the act, and quickly stops the intimacy. George's unreserved passion shocks Lucy, but also lights a secret desire and romance in her heart. Charlotte suggests George kissing her was the act of a rake. Charlotte makes reference to a heartbreak from her youth that occurred the same way and has behaved accordingly with disgust and anger toward George. Charlotte uses guilt to coerce Lucy to secrecy to save both their reputations as a young lady and a chaperone, but it is mostly for her own benefit. Normally, if a young man kissed a young lady, an engagement should be announced to preserve her reputation, but Charlotte considers George to be an undesirable influence. Upon returning to England, Lucy tells her mother nothing and pretends to forget the incident. She accepts a marriage proposal from a wealthy and respectable but snobbish man named Cecil Vyse (Daniel Day-Lewis). However, she soon learns that both George and his father have moved to her small village and will be her neighbors due to a letter from Cecil Vyse inviting them to reside in an empty cottage.
The appearance of George soon disrupts Lucy's plans and causes her suppressed feelings to resurface, complicated by the supposed need for secrecy. Lucy consistently refuses George's pursuit of her, but mysteriously breaks off her engagement to Cecil, and makes plans to visit Greece. George has also decided that he must move for peace of mind and makes arrangements. Lucy stops by Reverend Beebe's and is confronted by George's father before they are to leave town. She suddenly realizes that the only reason that she planned to travel was to escape her feelings for George. At the end, we see George and Lucy honeymooning in the Italian pensione where they met, in the room with the view.

