Gray's Anatomy is an 80-minute motion picture directed by Steven Soderbergh in 1996 involving a dramatized monologue by actorwriter Spalding Gray. The title is taken from the classic human anatomy textbook, Gray's Anatomy, originally written by Henry Gray in 1858.
The monologist film is about Spalding Gray, the main character, who is diagnosed with this rare ocular condition called "Macular pucker". After hearing of all his options, such as Christian Science, Native American sweat lodges, and the "Elvis Presley of psychic surgeons" to name a few, and the dangers of what surgery could bring, he decides to go through the other forms of medicine provided. This in turn took him on a journey around the world and steered him away from surgery more so because of his religious reasons, often in a dramatic and humorous fashion.
This was the fourth and last of Gray's theatrically released monologue films, following Swimming to Cambodia, Monster in a Box, and Terrors of Pleasure.
This film is available on DVD and Mini Disc. A remastered version was released by The Criterion Collection on DVD & Blu-Ray on June 2012.
Spalding Gray was raised in Rhode Island and went to school in Massachusetts. Gray’s style as an actor was influenced by Allen Ginsberg, Ramblin’ Jack Elliot, and the American Autobiographical movement. He mostly worked in experimental theater. In 1977, he co-founded the Wooster Theater Group in New York City. Two years later he performed his first monologue: Sex and Death at the Age of 14. In the 80’s Gray traveled to Thailand where he won two Independent Spirit Awards for the film, Swimming to Cambodia. He showed up in a few independent films in the 90’s before Gray’s Anatomy was published.
Steven Soderbergh Born on January 14, 1963, in Atlanta, Georgia, Soderbergh moved to Baton Rouge, Louisiana at a young age. He took a film animation at the age of 15 and began making short films, one was “Janitor”. When he graduated high school, he moved to Hollywood and became a freelance editor for a short period. Soderbergh soon moved home and continued to make short films and writing films. In 1986, he received his first major break with the rock group Yes had him shoot a full-length concert film; the video earned a Grammy nomination. In 1987, Soderbergh filmed Winston which expanded into Sex, Lies, and Videotape in 1989. This film earned him the Cannes Film Festival’s Palme d’Or Award, the Independent Spirit Award for Best Director, and an Oscar nomination for Best Original Screenplay. There were also a few disappointing films made by Soderbergh, these included Kafka (1991), King of the Hill (1993), Underneath (1995) and Gray’s Anatomy. In 1998, Soderbergh made Out of Sight and this film was the most successful since Sex, Lies, and Videotape. In 2000, Soderbergh directed Erin Brockovich and Traffic which are now his most successful films to date. These films were both nominated for Best Picture Oscars at the 2001 Academy Awards and gave him the first twin director Oscar nomination in almost 60 years. He won the Oscar for Best Director for Traffic at the 2001 Oscars.
The San Francisco Chronicle described Gray’s Anatomy as an unremarkable story. There's something intrinsically insincere about the whole quest. This creeping sense that Gray isn't really interested in anything he's talking about - that he, alone, is the subject of his own obsession gives Gray's Anatomy a distasteful edge.
The Digital Fix described Gray’s Anatomy as “very witty and a pleasure to listen to.” As he passes fifty, Gray starts to worry about his own death then he finds the sight in his left eye is becoming distorted. Learning that he has a macular pucker, Gray seeks out alternative therapies, including mass nude encounters in a sweatbox, a raw-vegetable diet and a trip to the Philippines to meet a psychic surgeon.
The Chicago Tribune described Gray’s Anatomy as demonstrating that fully stimulating the sense isn’t the same as fully engaging them. The film begins as ordinary as could be and then continues with scenery changes, lighting effects, and moody music.
Writeractor Spalding Gray is best known for his lengthy and insightful and sharply humorous onstage monologues, two of which, Swimming to Cambodia and Monster in a Box, have been filmed and released theatrically. Gray's Anatomy is also a filmed performance of a monologue he performed in 1993. Whereas the other two films had a focus on satire and humor, this one is a little more serious. Unlike the other two movies, it is less stagey and contains some interesting visuals and even a couple of interviews. The subject is Gray's bout with an eye ailment that caused him to go upon a world-wide journey in order to find a treatment alternative to the surgery he so feared and objected to on religious grounds. ~ Sandra Brennan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 79&nbsp;mins
