Delightfully Dangerous is a 1945 American musical film directed by Arthur Lubin showcasing teenage singer Jane Powell in her second film on loan out to United Artists from MGM and orchestra leader Morton Gould. The working titles of this film were Cinderella Goes to War, Reaching for the Stars and High Among the Stars. It was Frank Tashlin's first writing credit on a live action feature film.
High school music student Sherry Williams is excited that her actress sister Jo has taken time off from her New York stage career to visit Sherry's school to see her perform in a musical play. Jo is about to step off the train when she hears that a famed Broadway show producer Arthur Hale is also stepping off the same train leading Jo to depart from the other side of the train and make her own way to Sherry's play.
Arthur also is attending Sherry's school play and overhears one of the older girls ridiculing Sherry that her sister is not really a stage singer and probably does not exist. Arthur comes to the rescue by praising Jo's performances on stage. Arthur is casting a new play and though he appreciate's Sherry's voice she is too young to appear on Broadway.
Jo, Sherry and Arthur meet after the play but no one is the wiser as to the reason's for Jo's mysterious entrance. Jo also turns down an offer to audition for Arthur's play.
On a trip to New York with her schoolfriend, Sherry rings Jo's hotel where the clerk tells her she is performing in one of the theatres on 42nd Street. Jo discovers she is not a Broadway star, but a leading burlesque performer. Initially broken hearted, Sherry schemes that if she dresses to look older she will win the part in Arthur's show and support Jo so she leaves burlesque. Arthur can not believe she can pass for over 18 but a score of servicemen at a nightclub prove Arthur wrong.

In her second starring film, teenaged singing sensation Jane Powell plays Cheryl Williams, a 15-year-old music student who is led to believe that her older sister Josephine (Constance Moore) is a big Broadway star. In truth, Josephine is a stripper in a tawdry burleycue house, but fortunately Cheryl (apparently) never reads any out-of-town newspapers and thus is in a state of blissful ignorance. The fun begins when Cheryl arrives in New York, figures out the truth, and tries to marry Josephine off to big-time Broadway producer Arthur Hale (Ralph Bellamy). As a result, both Josephine and Cheryl are starring in Hale's latest production. Yes, it's a Deanna Durbin picture without Deanna, right down to newly arranged versions of old operetta favorites. Delightfully Dangerous is currently available from several video companies thanks to its "public domain" status. ~ Hal Erickson, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 92&nbsp;mins
