Barbie: A Fashion Fairy Tale is a computer animated direct-to-video movie and part of the Barbie film series. It was released on September 14, 2010. This is the second Barbie film in which Kelly Sheridan does not voice Barbie; instead, Diana Kaarina takes her role.
Barbie starts out as filming a movie called "The Princess and The Pea", but then gets fired. After being fired, Barbie recieives a phone call from Ken who tells her he wants to break up with her. Barbie doesn't know that her enemy, Raquelle, tricked Ken into saying this while practicing a fake script she gave him. Then, advised by her two best friends to get away for a while, Barbie goes to Paris to visit her Aunt Millicent's. After learning what he accidentally did to Barbie, Ken goes to Paris to make a grand gesture and show Barbie he loves her, although his journey involves many problems before finally getting to her. They worked very hard.With her new friend, Alice, Barbie meets the wing-less but magical Flairies. To save Aunt Millicent`s shop, Barbie hosts a fashion show against another designer named Jacqueline, with the help of Alice and the three Flairies.A lady orders ten thousand pieces from the fashion line, and Millicent is able to buy the fashion house back. Glimmer, who always struggled with her powers, transforms Barbie's final outfit into a glittering three-tiered pink gown. Better yet, Ken arrives and tells Barbie he never meant to break up with her, and what is more, that he loves her. They share a passionate kiss. Lilliana Roxelle, Paris's top fashion critic, congratulates them on a spectacular show and invites them to her Pink, White, and Black party that night. Glimmer harnesses her magic a second time and transforms the limousines into beautiful stagecoaches. The film ends after the director of "The Princess and the Pea" rehires Barbie.
This animated release follows Barbie on an adventure to Paris, where she is visiting her aunt - an important fashion designer. Unfortunately, upon arriving, she learns that her aunt's fashion business is in trouble, but when she discovers three Flairies with magical powers, Barbie comes up with a plan to save the day. ~ Cammila Collar, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 60&nbsp;mins
