Monsters vs. Aliens: Mutant Pumpkins from Outer Space is a 2009 Halloween television special, based on the film Monsters vs. Aliens. It was produced by DreamWorks Animation and directed by Peter Ramsey. The special premiered in Ireland on RTÉ One on October 26, 2009, and aired in USA on the NBC network on October 28, 2009.
One night a UFO Appears on the planet Earth and drops a green goo substance into a large pumpkin field (apparently they were flushing their toilet). Farmer Jeb, the owner of the patch, comes outside to investigate but is taken by something offscreen. Susan and the fellow monsters go back to Susan's home in Modesto, California, just in time for Halloween celebrations. Susan spends time with her parents, while the other monsters join in trick-or-treating, collecting a large amount of candy. Later, it is revealed that the monsters came to destroy mutant pumpkins disguised as Jack-o-lanterns. When the pumpkins begin to eat children's candies to grow larger, Susan fights the pumpkins with regenerating abilities, the monsters and children defeat them by throwing excessive candies to bloat them up and explode them while Susan punch its head, allowing one of the pumpkins to escape until she whistles for Butteryflyosaurus (dressed as Elvis) to destroy it while Missing Link scared the other surviving pumpkin for it to explode. But, in a twist ending, some of the pumpkin "blood" (the green goo) falls into a planting of carrots, causing a mutant carrot to be formed.
The special was first released on DVD in the UK on September 27, 2010 exclusively at Tesco stores. In the US it was released as a stand-alone version on September 13, 2011, and on September 27, 2011, along with Scared Shrekless. It will get its Blu-ray release on August 28, 2012, as a part of Shrek's Spooky Stories.
A sequel titled Night of the Living Carrots was released in October 2011 in two parts exclusively on the Nintendo 3DS video service. Directly following Mutant Pumpkins, Dr. Cockroach, Link and B.O.B. try to defeat hundreds of zombie carrots.
When evil aliens pose as harmless pumpkins in a bid to take over planet Earth on Halloween night, it's up to Susan (voice of Reese Witherspoon), B.O.B. (voice of Seth Rogen), Dr. Cockroach (voice of Hugh Laurie), and the Missing Link (voice of Will Arnett) to thwart the invasion and save the day. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 27&nbsp;mins
