Gnomes and Trolls: The Secret Chamber is an 2008 Swedish animated children's fantasy film directed by Robert Rhodin for the Stockholm based studio White Shark. The movie reached the top ten in box office admissions in three markets (Turkey, Sweden and Middle East) while it was only released to DVD in most other markets.
Gnomes and Trolls, an action-adventure comedic fairy tale, marks White Shark Film's first foray into computer animation. Junior, a teenage gnome, wants nothing more than to invent gizmos and gadgets in his tree-house laboratory. But Junior's old school father, Jalle, the head gnome of the forest, would prefer his son follow in his footsteps and one day be in charge of his own forest. In spite of their differences, on the eve of the first winter storm Junior helps Jalle distribute food rations to the soon-to-be-hibernating animals. Then disaster strikes.
Perpetually bickering troll brothers Face and Slim execute their evil father Fassa's carefully plotted plan to steal the food from the gnome secret food chamber. After Jalle is accidentally injured, Junior and his best friend Sneaky, a paranoid neurotic crow, embark on a heroic journey to the depths of troll cave to retrieve the stolen food. Junior and Sneaky's adventure takes them across vast landscapes and into encounters with bizarre animals.
Along the way, Junior learns that it is possible to merge his passion for inventing with his newfound impetus to defend the forest. As Sneaky taps into an innate bravery he never knew he had, Slim battles an identity crisis, and Junior's mother Svea shatters the preconceived notions of what it means to be a gnome wife.
The film was originally conceived as a 50-minute-long television movie. When the financing already was in place, the producers were persuaded by distributors from Russia and China into turning it into a theatrical feature film. The screenwriting was overseen by the exec producers Alec Sokolow and Joel Cohen. The total budget for the film was $5m (USD). The production was fast with a production time of 12 month from writing the script to delivering the 35mm print. The movie was the first CG animated movie produced by a Swedish company.
The movie was extremely poorly received among critics in Sweden. Reviewers in dailies Dagens Nyheter and Svenska Dagbladet gave it 0/6 and 1/5, each newspapers lowest grade, respectively. The tabloid Expressen gave it 2/5. TT's reviewer said it was one of the 10 worst movies he's seen in the past 10 years. Local paper UNT gave it a more positive review.
Turkey had 61.097 visitors giving it 8.6 out of 10 points. The movie has also been released in Kuwait (topping number 6 on top-ten box office), Dubai, Argentina, Brazil, the Czech Republic, Finland, Greece, US, Canada and Hungary.Citation from Turkey
A resourceful teenage gnome and a neurotic crow work together to ensure that the creatures of the forest are well fed even when it means clashing with a pair of scheming troll siblings who want all of the food for themselves. Sneak a peek in Junior's tree-house lab, and odds are good you'll find him tinkering with one of his wild inventions. Now, Junior's father wants his son to deliver food to the forest creatures before they hibernate. But greedy trolls Slim and Face have raided the chamber where the gnomes store their food, leaving the other creatures to starve over winter. Perhaps with the help of his winged pal Sneaky, Junior will be able to track down the missing food, and ensure that all of their forest-dwelling friends stay well fed once the snow begins to fall. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 70&nbsp;mins
