G.I. Joe: The Movie is a 1987 animated film spun off from the animated series G.I. Joe: A Real American Hero, based on the original Hasbro toyline. It was produced by Sunbow Productions and Marvel Productions and was animated in Japan by Toei Animation.
Created at the height of the G.I. Joe craze in the 1980s, G.I. Joe: The Movie was intended as a theatrical release to be closely followed by The Transformers: The Movie. However, the G.I. Joe film encountered unexpected production delays which allowed the Transformers feature to be released first. Due to the poor box office performances of the Transformers film and My Little Pony: The Movie, G.I. Joe: The Movie was instead released direct-to-video as well as aired on television in syndication, first in feature length format and later split into a five-part miniseries format as part of the show's syndication package.
While Cobra Commander and Serpentor blame each other's stewardship of Cobra as the root cause of the organization's failures, Pythona, a woman from the secret civilization Cobra-La, infiltrates the Terror Drome. While there, she reveals to Serpentor that Cobra-La was responsible for inspiring Doctor Mindbender to create Serpentor through dream manipulation. At her urging, Serpentor plans to capture G.I. Joe's latest weapon, the Broadcast Energy Transmitter (BET).
Cobra assaults the Joes as they test the BET in the Himalayas. The Joes use the BET to activate their automated weapons systems. Serpentor is captured and Cobra Commander orders a retreat. Cobra Commander leads his troops into Cobra-La.
As the Joes celebrate their victory, a new group of rookie Joes are brought onto the team, including the allegedly clumsy kunoichi Jinx, military police officer Law and his dog Order, former basketball player Big Lob, EOD specialist Tunnel Rat, undercover officer Chuckles, and Duke's reckless half-brother, the green beret Lt. Falcon.
In Cobra-La, the Joe forces are ambushed and detained within the Lovecraftian living environment. The Cobra soldiers are met by the civilization's leader Golobulus, who has Pythona and his other henchmen the Nemesis Enforcer arrest Cobra Commander. While there, Cobra learns about their history: 40,000 years ago, Cobra-La was an ancient civilization that ruled Earth. However, the Ice Age and evolution of humans and their development of scientific technology resulted in the Cobra-La's survivors being forced into caverns within the Himalayas. Cobra-La rebuilt their society in secret as centuries passed. Golobulus vowed to kill humanity. He eventually discovered a nobleman who was working on biological weapons of mass destruction involving mutative spores. The nobleman later became Cobra Commander, charged with conquering the world for Cobra-La. However, Cobra Commander's repeated failures caused Golobulus to use a Psychic Motivator on Doctor Mindbender to create Serpentor.
Meanwhile, Zarana tricks Falcon into infiltrating Serpentor's holding cell. For abandoning his training, Falcon is put on guard duty. After Falcon abandons his post to flirt with Jinx, the Dreadnoks and the Nemesis Enforcer free Serpentor, injuring some of the G.I. Joe members in the process. General Hawk scolds Falcon for abandoning his post and condemns him to his quarters until court-martial.
In Cobra-La, Cobra Commander is tried and Golobulus reveals his plans to launch spore pods into space and use the BET to hatch the spores. He punishes Cobra Commander for his repeated failures following his trial by exposing him to the spores, which transforms Cobra Commander into a snake. He flees and makes his way to the Joes' camp with Roadblock.
Convinced by Duke to spare Falcon a harsh punishment, General Hawk reassigns Falcon to the "Slaughter House" where he is to be retrained by Sgt. Slaughter and his "Renegades" consisting of ex-Viper Mercer, former football player Red Dog, and former acrobat Taurus. On a weaponless recon mission in the Terror Drome, the five learn of Cobra's plans and that the Baroness has discovered the BET. As Falcon and the others destroy the Terror Drome, Cobra launches an assault on the Joes. The Joes launch a counterattack on Cobra, but the BET is stolen. Serpentor attempts to kill Falcon, but Duke intervenes and falls into a coma.
Falcon, the Renegades and the new recruits head to the Himalayas to stop Cobra-La. The G.I. Joe team is led to Cobra-La's lair by Cobra Commander. The new recruits prove themselves as valuable soldiers as the Joes rescue their captured teammates. Falcon, Jinx and Slaughter confront Golobulus, his henchmen and Serpentor. The ensuing fight culminates in Jinx and Slaughter sending Pythona and the Nemesis Enforcer falling to their demise. Finally, Falcon sends Serpentor out of Cobra-La and reconfigures the BET to incinerate the spore pods in space. The BET overloads, destroying Cobra-La. Immediately following the battle, the strike team receives news that Duke has come out of his coma and is recovering.
Seen under the charge of Beach Head, the Rawhides are probationary recruits for G.I. Joe that have yet to complete their training for the team.
Led by Sgt. Slaughter, the Renegades are a loosely-affiliated Joe team used for unconventional warfare as well as a form of training and punishment for Lt. Falcon.
A race of ancient, humanoid creatures and the supposed origin of Cobra Commander.
Golobulus, the Royal Guard, and Nemesis Enforcer were afterwards all marketed as action figures in a single packaging.
The writers did not originally intend for "Cobra-La" to be the name of the rival civilization; this was merely a placeholder name in the drafts until a more alien label came to mind, but Hasbro executives fell in love with the name and forced the writers to keep it.
In the film's original script, the character Duke dies in battle. This decision inspired the killing of Optimus Prime in The Transformers: The Movie while both films were in production.
After Optimus Prime's death sparked backlash among fans and parents, Hasbro backtracked on allowing Duke's death and had new dialogue inserted, stating Duke was only in a coma. He recovered by the end of the film. Writer and story editor Buzz Dixon said in an interview with JoeHeadquarters.com, " you watch the visuals and don't listen to the soundtrack, it's obvious Duke dies." In the original script, the Joes also held his funeral prior to the final battle.
Rhino Entertainment first released the film on DVD on June 20, 2000. Shout! Factory released a remastered special edition on DVD and Blu-ray on July 27, 2010, featuring audio commentary from story consultant (and series writer) Buzz Dixon, and a printable copy of the original screenplay.
When Golobulus (Burgess Meredith) and Cobra plot to eliminate mankind and repopulate the world with a vicious race of ancient reptilians, it's up to Duke and company to prevent them from acquiring the technology that will enable them to do so in this feature-length adventure based on the classic cartoon series. Centuries after being driven underground during the ice age, the Cobralas are back, and ready to reclaim the planet. They've developed a plant with spores that possess the power to drain humans of their life force, but the only way they can get the spores to mature is by using the Broadcast Energy Emitter - a revolutionary device with the capability to provide enough energy for the entire planet. As Duke sinks into a deep coma following a fierce fight on the battlefield, Lt. Falcon (Don Johnson) rises to the challenge of leading the Joe team on their most important mission to date. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All G.I. Joe: The Movie Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 93&nbsp;mins
