How to Train Your Dragon is a series of ten children's books written by British author Cressida Cowell. The books are set in a fictional Viking world and focus on the experiences of protagonist Hiccup and his tribe as they train Dragons as pets. The books were published by Hodder Children's Books in the UK and by Little, Brown and Company in the US. The first book was published in 2003 and the latest book in the series was published in 2012.
The books have subsequently been made into a franchise consisting of a feature film of the same name, several short stories and an animated television series created by DreamWorks Animation.
Cowell has published ten full novels to date based around the adventures of Hiccup, the first published in 2003 and the latest published in 2012. The books all have titles based around an instruction guide:
In addition to these ten main novels, Cowell has also published other supplementary stories as part of the series: The Day Of The Dreader is a short story published in 2012 and the novel How To Train Your Viking was published as part of World Book Day 2006 and is claimed to be written by the dragon Toothless and translated by Cowell. A picture book, Hiccup the Seasick Viking published in 2000, is not considered a part of the series despite featuring the same character of Hiccup.
Cowell cites the Inner Hebrides of Scotland as an inspiration for the book.
The book follows Hiccup as he captures a dragon as a rite of passage and attempts to train him so that he will not be exiled from Berk, as is tradition. Led by Gobber the Belch, Hiccup manages to catch a small dragon, whom he names Toothless, and attempts to train it through his own methods, when the How To Train Your Dragon book was found to have only one page and therefore unhelpful. During the final part of the rite of passage Toothless offends another dragon and a fight ensues between all the dragons. As this is seen as failure to train the dragons correctly, the boys are exiled, allowed to stay one night while a storm rages. During the storm, two Sea Dragons are washed up on the shore of the island and one seems a threat to the Vikings. Hiccup is chosen to negotiate with the dragon who calls himself the Green Death which proves futile. While the village elders argue over how to attack the Green Death, Hiccup, the boys and their dragons begin a fight with the dragon, resulting in Hiccup nearly being swallowed and having to be rescued by Toothless, killing the Green Death in the process. Hiccup and Toothless become heroes because of their bravery.
This book is the sequel to How to Train Your Dragon. The story starts during a Sword-fighting-at-Sea lesson during a storm and Hiccup finds himself poor at using the sword. The fight is cut off as the boat tips over and is holed by an object, a coffin, using which Hiccup rides back to the Isle of Berk. Soon the coffin is opened and they find out that it contains a living man, named Alvin the Treacherous.
Alvin hides his true identity and tells the Vikings that he found a riddle that tells where to find the treasure of Grimbeard the Ghastly, the greatest pirate of all times and the great-great grandfather of Hiccup, and a map that shows the island where the treasure is.
They figure that the treasure is in the Isle of Skullions, an island inhabited by blind, flightless, and deaf dragons called Skullions that are extremely sensitive to smell. According to the riddle, the Heir to the Tribe's hunting dragon will sniff out the treasure. The Vikings go to the Isle of the Skullions. A small treasure chest is found along with Grimbeard's famous sword, the Stormblade. However, Grimbeard has booby-trapped the chest with a smell that would wake up all of the Skullions on the island, but the Vikings escape with the treasure. On reaching close to Berk the Vikings begin fighting over the treasure and as they fight, they are boarded by a group of cannibalistic Vikings (known as Outcasts). Another fight ensues. The ship soon catches fire and sinks shortly after they board and everyone abandons it, climbing on the Outcasts' ship, continuing the fight; everyone except for Hiccup, Fishlegs, Alvin and Toothless who sink with the ship but are kept alive as long as the air pocket trapped under the capsized ship lasts.
Toothless finds an underwater cavern filled with air. As the party begins to explore the cavern they come to a door and upon opening it, they find it filled with gold and jewels. Alvin turns on Hiccup to kill him. In a fight that follows, Hiccup realises that he is left-handed and hence why he was never good at sword-fighting before. In the middle of that fight Alvin steps on a pile of treasure under which is hidden a Monstrous Strangulator, an octopus-like creature that eats him up. As it comes next for Hiccup, Hiccup puts the needle in the tentacle the creature had wrapped around him. The creature's nervous system explodes and they escape, but Hiccup decides that the world is not ready for the treasure, and leaves it behind.
They soon surface with the aid of Toothless, and the book ends with Hiccup, Toothless and Fishlegs all getting back to the village and finding that the Hooligans had survived and won the battle with the Outcasts but had set them free.
In the epilogue, Hiccup tells us in the sword that he used to fight Alvin, he found the last will and testament of Grimbeard the Ghastly. It turns out that the sword was Grimbeard's favourite sword, because the Stormblade always leaned a little to the left.It is revealed in How to steal a dragon's sword that its name is the Dragonsword, but Old Wrinkly names it the Endeavor.
The third book in the series. The story starts during a Boarding-An-Enemy-Ship Lesson. Gobber explains to his students that they will practice on the easy target of a Peaceable fishing boat. Gobber warns his students not to leave the bay, or else they might have an encounter with Sharkworms. Snotlout and Dogsbreath ram their ship at Hiccup and Fishlegs' ship (known as the Hopeful Puffin) and the ship loses course and they get lost. Fishlegs cannot see through the fog, and mistakes a Roman ship for a Peaceable Fishing boat by accident, and is attacked by the Romans. While on board, Hiccup finds two men (known as the Fat Consul and the Thin Prefect) talking about how they will steal all the dragons in the Inner Isle by kidnapping the Heirs of the Bog-Burglar Tribes and the Hooligans, causing both Tribes to fight, letting the Romans steal all the dragons in the Inner Isles.
To save Fishlegs and escape, Hiccup secretly takes a nanodragon from the bowl of nandragons the Fat Consul is eating, and replaces it with an Electrisquirm. The Fat Consul is electrocuted and while all the Romans are distracted by this, Hiccup unlocks the dragon's cages, wreaking havoc, and Hiccup and Fishlegs escape. The Thin Prefect tries to grab Hiccup's "How to Speak Dragonese" Book, but it instead rips into two. As the two jump into the boat, Toothless gets captured. Hiccup tries to tell his dad what has happened, and tells him to send a War Party to save Toothless. Stoick does not believe him, and is more worried about Hiccup's grades. The next morning, Hiccup hears someone singing from his coat. He remembers the nanodragon he had rescued. The nanodragon tells Hiccup that its name is Ziggerastica the Living God. The nanodragon promises to do one thing for Hiccup, in return for what he did for her. During a Frightening Foreigners lesson, the Romans, disguised as (in not a really good disguise) Bog-Burglars kidnap him and Fishlegs during a class and take them to Fort Sinister. There they discover Alvin the Treacherous is the Thin Prefect, who cut his way out of the dead Strangler's stomach, but lost his position as Chief of the Outcasts due to his hair falling out from the Strangler's stomach juices. He is working with the Romans and trying to learn Dragonese. His plan is to create a dragon army that can swim down to get the treasure of Grimbeard the Ghastly (from the previous book) for him. Hiccup tricks the Romans into keeping them alive until the day they are supposed to be killed by gladiators. Until then, they are put in a cell, where they meet Camicazi, the wild female heir to the Bog-Burglars Viking tribe. Hiccup calls on Ziggeristica and his army to form a plan to rescue the three of them and they are taken to the arena. Hiccup, Camicazi and Toothless are surprised to find that there are no gladiators. They realise they have filled the arena with water and find Sharkworms swimming around them. Hiccup launches his plan (Hiccup expected gladiators on the field, so he is not sure if it will work). Hiccup forces Fishlegs and Camicazi to throw him into a barrel, because he has a cut, and Sharkworms are attracted to blood. As the Sharkworms destroy the barrel, Hiccup appears to fly out of the barrel, and makes the spectators believe he is Thor, and orders the Romans to leave, and to give his book back. However, Alvin attempts to shake out a Venomous Vorpent he had put inside, but fails. Hiccup then appears to break the protection net with a hand gesture, and the Sharkworms attack the audience. Hiccup lands on the boat the three were on. Hiccup reveal there are armies of tiny dragons on his shirt, and they are propelling him into the air. Some other armies had chewed on the protection net all night (and the locks of the dragon cages) He and his friends attempt to escape in the boat, but Alvin orders the portcullis to be held down, and the boat is destroyed. They climb the portcullis and enter a Roman observation balloon and escape to find the search parties from both tribes. Alvin chases them but falls into the Sharkworm-infested water. As they land, the Venomous Vorpent crawls out of the book and appears to sting one of them.
The two Tribes realise that their Heirs are back and call off the fight and celebrate the return of the Heirs.
However, it is said at the end that during the balloon landing, one of the heroes was stung by the venomous dragon inside the book, hinting at the book "How To Cheat a Dragon's Curse."
This book is the fourth in the series. During a hunting-with-bows-and-arrows expedition, Hiccup finds Fishlegs acting strangely when they spot a group of Hysterics, a tribe of scary lunatic Vikings. Fishlegs starts attacking the Hysterics with a ski. Hiccup shoots an arrow at a Hyseric (known as Norbert the Nutjob) who stumbles crazily from side to side, knocking down all of the Hysterics. Hiccup and Fishlegs flee on their skis, with the Hysterics behind in hot pursuit. Hiccup falls off the side of a cliff. At first One-eye, the Saber-Toothed Driver dragon which had pulled Hiccup and Fishlegs to the top of the mountain, refuses to rescue Hiccup; but when Hiccup points out that if he does not save him, Snotface Snotlout (who had previously treated One-eye very badly, and given him a good whipping) will become Chief of the Tribe), One-eye saves Hiccup after all, and he and Fishlegs return to the village. Hiccup is worried about Fishlegs, and takes him to see Old Wrinkly. Old Wrinkly examines Fishlegs, and tells Hiccup that Fishlegs is suffering from Vorpentitis, a disease caused by the sting of a Venomous Vorpent, and the only cure to this disease is a vegetable called a potato, which can only be found in America. Hiccup does not believe him, because all Vikings, except the Hysterics, believe that the world is as flat as a pancake, and there is NO such place as America. Old Wrinkly tells Hiccup that Norbert the Nutjob (the chief of the Hysteric Tribe)'s father, Bigjob, had actually gone to America and made friends with the Americans, which he called "feather people", and brought back the potato to prove he was right about America being true. However, he was attacked by a Doomfang. Old Wrinkly predicts the potato might be in the Hysteric Territories, and tells him that he must bring it back before ten o'clock the next morning, or else Fishlegs will die.
Hiccup brings Camicazi and Toothless (Toothless was supposed to be hibernating like the other hunting dragons, but he did not dig his hibernating hole deep enough, which could cause him to sleep for a long time, so Hiccup dug him up) on the journey to Hysteria, with One-eye pulling them on a sleigh. The two children enter through the roof of a house where the Hyterics are celebrating Freya'sday Friday. They lower Camicazi through the chimney Hiccup accidentally falls into a giant pot of onion soup, and gets discovered by Norbert the Nutjob. Hiccup makes Norbert show him the potato by pretending not to believe in the potato. Norbert finally reveals his father's preserved body, and in Norbert's father's hand is a glass case with ice and has an arrow stuck in it. Hiccup tries to persuade Norbert to give him the potato, but Norbert refuses. Norbert soon gets annoyed with Hiccup, and decides whether Hiccup should or should not die by throwing his double-sided axe into the air. If it lands on the black side, Hiccup will die, if it lands on the white side, he will live. Hiccup cheats by catching the axe just as it is about to land on the black. Norbert is annoyed that Hiccup cheated, and locks him in the cage. After the Hysterics fall asleep, Camicazi picks the lock of Hiccup's cage; freeing him (Toothless took the key to cage from Norbert's pocket, but swallows it, and accidentally sets fire to a carpet). Camicazi lowers herself down with a rope and grabs the potato, but sees something in the glass case that interests her and it too. Suddenly, the preserved body of Norbert's father falls on a row of Squealers (a type of dragon that Vikings use as an alarm), who give ear-piercing screams. All the Hysterics suddenly wake up.
Hiccup throws the food on the table at the guards, while Camicazi knocks Norbert out with the frozen potato. Hiccup, Camicazi and Toothless get out of the Hall through the chimney. The two children ride via food tray down the roof and into Hysteria. The three, along with One-eye, escape in a boat, but get attacked by the Doomfang, which lives under a frozen river called the "Wrath of Thor". The Doomfang breaks out of the ice and uses its tongue to grab the potato and eats it. Hiccup realises that his mission has failed and wonders if the Doomfang had Vorpentitis, it showed the symptoms. Once he gets back, he realises that Fishlegs had only caught a cold, and Old Wrinkly had made a mistake. Stoick (Hiccup had lied to Stoick saying that he was spending the night at Snotlout's house, but instead he went to get the potato) yells at Old Wrinky for making Hiccup go on the quest for nothing and almost get killed by Norbert. Hiccup suddenly falls on the same bed Fishlegs was lying on, and his entire body goes stiff. Old Wrinkly examines Hiccup and says that it is actually Hiccup who has Vorpentitis. Hiccup desperately tries to speak, murmuring "Oot me!", and tries to point at the arrow on the table next to him which had been stuck in the potato for a long time. Fishlegs realises that Hiccup wants him to shoot him with the arrow. Fishlegs shoots Hiccup on the foot, and Hiccup recovers. In the epilogue, Hiccup buries the arrow that saved his life and a seed on the end of it grows another potato which is used to cover the island with potatoes so no one dies of Vorpentitis ever again.
The fifth book in the series. The story begins with the children on a herding exercise for their Pirate Training Program. They are distracted by a huge fire rolling down the mountainside. The fire is found to be the doing of the Extermintators, big evil fire dragons. While most of the kids escape on Gobber's riding dragon, Goliath, before he is killed by the Exterminators, Hiccup and Gobber are left to defend themselves. Hiccup and Gobber are saved by a mysterious man in a fireproof suit riding a white dragon, whom they at first believe to be a man from the treacherous Lava-Lout tribe. The man soon reveals himself to be Humungously Hotshot, one of the greatest heroes on the planet. Although Hiccup's father, Stoick, begins to regard Hotshot with jealousy, he hires him as Hiccup's "bodyguard".
After that, Hotshot saves Hiccup from several deadly situations, all of which are later revealed to be his own doing. Later on at night, Hiccup wakes up to Hotshot looming over him with his swords, arguing with himself whether or not to kill Hiccup. He ultimately decides not to, and Hiccup asks him what he's doing. Hotshot begins to tell Hiccup his story, of how he fell in love with a Viking woman, but her father wanted her to marry someone clever. The woman's father sent Hotshot on an Impossible Task to find and bring back the Firestone, and the reward was the woman's hand in marriage. Hotshot travelled to the volcano where the Firestone was hidden, but he was captured soon after by the Lava Louts. After a few weeks, he became friends with a jailkeeper named Terrific Al. He asked Terrific Al to bring a half of the ruby heart to his love because she vowed to save him if she received the ruby heart. Terrific Al told Humongous that he would bring the ruby heart to his ladylove if he promised to do something for him and disappeared for fifteen years and came back to tell Humongous Hotshot that his love threw the heart out of the window and married somebody else who had already brought back the Firestone. Terrific Al (who mysteriously has lost a hand, half a leg, an eye and all of his hair) told Humongous the thing he must promise to do is to kill Hiccup, stating that Hiccup is a Prince of Darkness and a Devil Child, who will send terror across the Archipelago. After Hotshot finishes his story Hiccup figures out that the woman Humungous is talking about is Hiccup's own mother, who had thought he was dead, and that Terrific Al is really Alvin the Treacherous. Hiccup, Fishlegs, Hotshot, Camicazi, the White Dragon and the Windwalker, Hiccup's riding dragon travel to Lava-lout Island to put the fire stone inside the volcano to stop the volcano from exploding and are attacked by Alvin riding an Exterminator. Alvin reveals the first Sharkworm he met tore out his eye, but he killed it and hid inside. However after he got out on shore the dead Sharkworm's mouth shut on his leg, but he carved a new one from its teeth. The volcano erupts and the Exterminators hatch. Hiccup manages to put the stone into the volcano. But on contact with the lava, the fire stone hatches into a fire dragon, revealing that the fire stone is actually an egg. The dragon eats all the Exterminators, including the one Alvin is riding,swallowing Alvin. Hiccup and his riding dragon, Windwalker, run down the island away from lava and fall into the sea. Hiccup's father and others rescue him and everything works out well. In the epilogue, Hiccup tells us that Windwalker turns out to be his faithful flying dragon.
The sixth book in the series is the only one not to have How to in its title. But it is also named How not to Celebrate your Birthday. Its cover name is named only A Hero's Guide to Deadly Dragons after Hiccup's informative book inside this book.
Hiccup is lost in the Library Labyrinth and the Driller Dragons and Madguts the Murderous are on the prowl, all because of a book! Hiccup's birthday is not going to be the quiet affair he might have hoped for. This book contains an open-up map of the Barbaric Archipelago, a Dragonese Dictionary in the back, Dragon Profiles and "Conversations with Toothless".
Hiccup wakes up that morning, wishing for a peaceful birthday. He then tries to persuade Toothless to eat his breakfast, which is spinach and drift wood. Toothless refuses, so Hiccup goes to the Finals of a Burglary Competition between the Bog-Burglars and the Hooligans alone. When Hiccup returns home, he realises Toothless has eaten three quarters of Stoick's throne. Stoick comes in the room, and is in a bad temper because he had made a bet to Big-Boobied Bertha that he could prove that the Hooligans were just as good at Burglary as the Bog-Burglars by the end of the day, and also because Hiccup has been researching about dragons and writing in notebooks about them. He throws a tantrum, but remembers that Gobber has stolen the "How to Train Your Dragon" manual from the Meathead Library under the nose of the Hairy Scary Librarian. Stoick tells Hiccup that if Toothless does one more thing like this, he will banish him, and goes off to find the book.
Toothless guiltily reveals that he also burned the copy of "How To Train Your Dragon". Camicazi suggests that they can go to the Meathead Library, and supposedly there might be another copy of the book, and get back home "in time for tea". Hiccup, Camicazi and Fishlegs go to the Island of Forget Me on a Stealth Dragon Big-Boobied Bertha had stolen from Maduguts the Murderous, the Chief of the Murderous Tribe, for the bet with Stoick, to visit the Meathead Public Library. With the help of Stormfly, Camicazi's dragon, they find the copy of "How to Train Your Dragon", though it is a second edititon. The Hairy Scary Librarian catches them stealing the book and fights with Camicazi and Hiccup. Fishlegs throws a book at the Hairy Scary Librarian. However, Stormfly is knocked out in the process, and awakens with no memory of who she is, and how did she get in. The Librarian, who falls onto the floor, which is full of Red Hot Ithcyworms (the worms went into his pants, tickling him) runs toward the exit, laughing and screaming. The noise attracts Driller Dragons who are dwelling in the Library.
Hiccup finds a book that was written by Hiccup Horrendous Haddock the II called A Hero's Guide To Deadly Dragons which was exactly the same book that Hiccup the third wrote, which had been taken from him earlier that morning. He pulls the book out and the shelf opens, revealing hole filled with Poisonous Piffleworms, their only exit.
Hiccup takes back the second edition of How to Train Your Dragon to the Isle of Berk. Meanwhile, Madguts tracks down the Stealth Dragon and it leads him to the Isle of Forget Me. They find that it has gone to the Isle of Berk and go there. On the Isle of Berk, both Stoick and Bertha find the stolen things they have got for the bet are missing. The Hairy Scary Librarian arrives and shoots Stoick with a Northbow but Hiccup's handwritten book saves Stoick's life and Hiccup, Fishlegs, and Camicazi come from the sky and squash the Librarian flat with the Stealth Dragon. Madguts and Gumboil arrive for the Stealth Dragon and are about to kill Bertha. Hiccup saves her by lying to Madguts, telling him that the Scary Hairy Librarian had stolen the Stealth Dragon instead, so she squashed the Librarian. Madguts believes him, and takes the Librarian away. Hiccup persuades Stoick that books are useful and books are unbanned by order of the Thing. At the end of the book, there is Hiccup's finished A Hero's Guide To Deadly Dragons, as well as conversation starters with Toothless.
This is the seventh book in the series. The story starts at the beach at the bottom the Murderous Mountains. Madguts the Murderous invites two tribes, the Bog-burglars and the Hairy Hooligans to join the Murderous Tribe, over for an Intertribal Friendly Swimming race. The winner may have a single request which will be granted by the three Chiefs of the three tribes. The winner of the swimming race is the one who is the Last Man (or Woman) back. Madguts, Stoick and Big Boobied Bertha set off to the water more slowly than the others, more certain that they will win the race. Gumboil and Madguts laugh at the fact that Bog-burglars and the Hooligans are all wearing Blubberwing fat to keep themselves warm, and show them the Deepest Purple Fleshfang oil they are wearing,which is so hot, in fact, that a steam is billowing off Madgut's chest. And then they tell them that there is a pot at the edge of the water. Gumobil assures the two Chiefs that they can go back, because the race does not start until you start swimming. The two Chiefs realise the pot is empty, and also realises that they have been tricked into returning to the beach in three minutes and twenty-two seconds, and become the losers of the Race. Hiccup, Camicazi and Fishlegs have difficulty in swimming the farther waters, even though their hunting dragons are trying to help, especially Fishlegs, who has to swim in armbands. They encounter Snotlout and Dogsbreath, who destroy Fishlegs' armbands. Camicazi and Fishlegs are pulled underwater after a while. Hiccup also is pulled down, and is pulled back to the surface, realising that he and his friends have been captured by Raptortongues. They are taken to a ship and tied up. Their hunting dragons are tied up too.
The ship happens to have Madguts, Norbert the Nutjob (Chief of the Hysterics) and Gumboil. Norbert has asked Madguts to take Hiccup, Camicazi and Fishlegs to the boat, and in return letting him rest on the boat for a few hours, before he continues the race, being the Last Man Back. After Madguts and Gumboil leave, Hiccup returns the ticking thing, which he had stolen from Norbert in an earlier adventure. Norbert attempts to use the ticking thing to get to America. Norbert is about to kill the Hiccup, Camicazi and Fishlegs with Axe of Doom, but is forced to untie the three because he cannot read the ticking thing. Hiccup and his friends explore the boat, finding many interesting contraptions that have been made by Norbert, for example: a machine that generates a high-pitched noise that will startle giant dragons and a flying Machine that is tested by crew members every day, only to crash into the ocean. Hiccup discovers there are slaves called the Northern Wanderers on the boat. He falls into the Salve Hatch by accident one day and meets Bearcub and his grandmother. Hiccup pleads that Wanderers not to kill him, and promises to free them, and is rescued by Norbert. The boat reaches the land of Polar-serpents, where dangerous dragons called Polar-serpents roam. Hiccup decides to use Dragon-nip to make the Hysterics fall asleep and escape with the Wanderers. Hiccup pours dragon-nip into the crew's dinner, making them all fall asleep. After all Wanderers are safe on the emergency boats, Hiccup falls off the boat and lands on an ice berg, and is chased into a cave by Polar Serpents. Hiccup accidentally wakes up a gigantic dragon, which also chases Hiccup. Hiccup manages to get back onto the boat, and uses the machine that generates a high pitched noise to keep the monster away, identifying it as a Leviathorgan. America is in sight, but a storm breaks out, and the Leviathorgan from the cave attacks the ship. Norbert and Hiccup fight on the top of the ship. Lightning strikes Norbert's axe and it enters the sea, killing the Leviathorgan. Hiccup falls of the mast, as he swims up he hits his head on a sinking coldrin which shortly gives him amnesia, and then he passes out. He is rescued by Fishlegs and Camicazi. Back at the Murderous Mountains, Madguts is clearly the winner, and demands Stoick and Big-Boobied Bertha to be sacrificed to Sky Dragons. Old Wrinkly announces that Hiccup, Fishlegs and Camicazi have not yet returned, and the race is supposed to be three months, five days and six hours, so they still have to wait for three months, before Madguts is declared winner, and the two other Chiefs will be under temporary custody under Madguts.
Camicazi and Fishlegs are rescued by the Wanderers. The two take Hiccup on board too, and after Bearcub's grandmother's medicine, Hiccup awakens. After a long time, the ticking things start to tick louder, because Old Wrinkly had set an alarm on it. With only six hours left, and thinking that Old Wrinkly really did have a reason to set the alarm, the three fly to Berk on the Norbert's flying machine, which the Wanderers had collected. The machine works well, but as they near Berk, the machine breaks and crashes into the ocean. Hiccup and his friends come just in time for the alarm to set off. Because Hiccup is the last person back, he demands Madguts to sing a love song at the next Thing while dressed up as an "ickle pretty shepherdess".
This is the eighth book in the series. The Hooligans, while searching for Camicazi (who had been shipwrecked during a storm)in the Eastern Archipelago(a dangerous section in the Barbaric Archipelago), accidentally crash their ship into a rock, and the ship sinks in the shallow waters of the Beach of the Broken Heart, a haunted beach belonging to wicked pirates called Uglithugs, forcing the Hooligans to camp there. While on the beach, they find a mysterious object, and they discover it is a throne belonging to Hooligans, as the Hooligan coat of arms is on it.
In the middle of the night, the leader of the Uglithugs, UG, and his men, discover the Hooligans, waking them up. UG tells them that he doesn't want to kill them, but wants to talk to them about a strange event: a Hooligan has been sending love letters to UG's daughter, Tantrum O'Ugerly, and explains that if the person is of royal blood, the person can ask for Tantrum's hand in marriage after the person finishes an Impossible Task, and if not, the person will be killed. Hiccup realizes that Fishlegs is the one who sent the letters, and spares Fishlegs life by telling UG that he himself wrote the letters. UG then tells him the Impossible Task: to give them a barrel of mead made from the honey made by the bees on the Island of Berserk, an island inhabited by crazy lunatics who enjoy feeding people alive to a dragon known as "the Beast" in wicker baskets. UG then tells Hiccup that he should be back at UG's castle on Midsummer's day at five o'clock in the morning with five pots of Berserk honey.
Back on Berk, Stoick convinces the other Hooligans to help Hiccup collect the honey. Meanwhile, Fishlegs realizes that he himself is a Berserk,after going berserk himself. And that he had been thrown into the sea in a lobster pot and had been adopted by Hooligans, and goes off to Berserk on his Chickenpoxer dragon. Hiccup and Toothless follow him on the Windwalker.
On Berserk, Fishlegs successfully collect five pots of honey, but gets captured by Berserks. So is Hiccup. At the Berserk Village, Hiccup and Fishlegs meet the other fiancés of Tantrum, one of them being Humongously Hotshot the Hero. All of them are to be fed to "the Beast" later in the evening. Hiccup realizes that the chef of the Berserk Chief is actually Alvin the Treacherous (who is in chains). Alvin explains that when he was in the Fire Dragon in Book 5, he had used his sword to pop open the stomach of the Exterminator Dragon he was riding (because there is lots of laughing gas in the stomach of dragons). The Fire dragon burst out in laughter, and Alvin floated out in a bubble, which was later shot down by a Berserk. Alvin then fell from the sky onto the Berserk Chief's chef, and spared his own life by agreeing to become the Chief's new chef. Hiccup tells Alvin that he can help him escape if he shows him where Camicazi is imprisoned (Hiccup had already knew that she was imprisoned in Berserk). Alvin agrees but while they are in the woods, he pushed Hiccup into a tree cell, where he meets a witch who introduces herself as Hogtrude(and Hiccup introducing himself as Fishlegs), who helps get some nasty things from Toothless's tummy. The witch then finds Hiccup suspicious and decides to tell him a story and at the end of the story, they will both guess each other's names and whoever guesses right will get to kill the other.
The witch then tells Hiccup how Grimbeard the Ghastly had three kids, Thugheart, Chucklehead and Hiccup Horrendous Haddock II. Grimbeard tried to kill the second Hiccup by leaving him in the mountainside, upsetting his wife who left to look for the second Hiccup. Meanwhile, the second Hiccup was adopted by Grimler dragons and learned to speak Dragonese, but was found by Hooligans, and he and his adopted step dragon brother, a Seadragonus Giganticus Maximus named Furious, lived with Grimbeard. One day, Hiccup wanted to hold a petition for the dragons to demand freedom. However, Thugheart tricked Grimbeard into thinking that it was an attack and Grimbeard killed Hiccup, but soon he realizes that Hiccup just wanted a peaceful petition, and regrets his actions and buried his treasures and left in his boat(Furious took the second Hiccup's corpse away). The witch guesses Hiccup's correct name, and Hiccup guesses that the witch is Alvin the Treacherous's mother, both being correct. Hiccup then escapes by using a key that had been in Toothless' belly to unlock the door to the cell and rescues Camicazi and they return to the Berserk village. Hiccup goes back into his cage just as the feeding of "the Beast" begins. Alvin, surprised that Hiccup has returned, chooses Hiccup to be fed to "the Beast" first. Hiccup realizes that "the Beast" is actually Furious. After realizing that Hiccup is a descendant of a boy he loved, he agrees to help Hiccup if Hiccup sets him free. Hiccup realizes that the key he has can free Furuious and they free the fiancés and cause chaos in the village. Furious then breaks the deal he made with Hiccup, and sets fire to the Berserk woods and tells Hiccup that a year after he leaves the Archipelago, he shall return to destroy the humans along with a dragon army. Hiccup, Camicazi, Fishlegs, Toothless, the Windwalker and the Chickenpoxer return to Berk with the honey.
Meanwhile, Humongous bring his five pots of honey to UG's room and goes on his honeymoon with Tantrum (because Humongous had been the one she had loved).
In the epilogue, Hiccup tells us that sometimes he dreams he is the father of the second Hiccup, and sees him riding on a dragon, promising he will return.
This is the ninth book in the series. Bad times come to the Archipelago, and ever since the woods of Berserk burned down it is as if the world is cursed. Hiccup and other young warriors are brought to the island where "Flashburn's school of swordfighting" waits for them. The children have 3 weeks at the school to train their swordfighting, for New Year's Day; there will be a swordfighting competition, in which the winner is declared a new warrior of his tribe. The youngsters have to go up the cliff, "THe Hard Way", and are attacked by a pack of dragons of different species, which is unusual behaviour for dragons. Hiccup's clever plan saves the lot of them. But once at the school, no one is to be found. Worse still, the only person there, the wicked witch Excellinor (Alvin the Treacherous's Mother) has returned as the castle's witch. She tells everyone that the dragons are revolting in a "Red Rage" and are led by the dragon Furious, who was one year before released by... Hiccup. She tells the tribes that the swordfighting competition must be used to find the next king of the Wilderwest. She tells them a prophecy which is about the next king: he has a dragon with no teeth, an arrow from a land that does not exist, Grimbeard's second-best sword, a ticking-thing, a rectangular shield, a throne, a crown, and the Dragon Jewel. Hiccup has got all of these things, except the throne, though he knows where it is, the crown, and the dragon jewel. Meanwhile, the witch makes sure that her son Alvin has no challengers during the competition. Hiccup finds the crown under Flashburn's school, along with a dragon called the Wodensfang, a very old, ancient dragon that was told to guard the crown by Grimbeard the Ghastly. The Wodensfang tells him he was the one who gave the first Hiccup the Dragon Jewel. He gets back into the hut and the witch attacks him but he was immune to the vorpent venom on her claws gets himself covered in the poison in the struggle, wins the competition, beating his own father. Alvin is third. Hiccup is declared winner and tells the tribes that he wanted to free all dragons so that there would be no revolt in the first place. He wants to abolish slavery for both humans and dragons. Most tribes agree on this, but then, when all looks so well, Snotlout throws a stone at his head, knocking Hiccup's helmet off, revealing he has the Slavemark. Everyone's shocked. The Slavemark is the ultimate mark of shame. Since he has the Slavemark, Hiccup is automatically a slave, disqualified from the competition, exiled from his tribe, and could never become chief, let alone a king. Stoick, Hiccup's father, is also banished, because he knew Hiccup was a 'runt', and thus should not have been part of their tribe in the first place, but instead abandoned as a baby. Everyone has to turn their backs, excluding Fishlegs, who gives Hiccup his lobster-claw necklace, the only thing Fishlegs has from his parents. Alvin's the new king, and declares war on the dragons. Furious arrives and the war begins. Only Windwalker and Toothless stay faithful, and bring Hiccup to safety. He is followed by the dragons, who think he has the Dragon Jewel, the only thing that could stop the dragons now. In mid-chase he falls unconscious on dragonback and wakes up safe in a cave, Hiccup now all alone, an outcast, an exile, no sword, no helmet, only the Windwalker, Toothless and the Wodensfang by his side, Hiccup's in despair, until he finds he actually has the map to find the Dragon Jewel (Which is revealed by the venom on his hands uncovering the secret map on Grimbeard the Ghastly's will), and triumphantly cries: 'THIS IS NOT THE END'!
This is the tenth book in the series. The Dragon Rebellion has begun. Snotlout is the new Chief of the Hooligan Tribe. Stoick has been banished and given the Slavemark. And Alvin the Treacherous has EIGHT of the King's Lost Things, and has been proclaimed the new King of the Wilderwest ... But what can Hiccup do, now all alone and in exile, hunted by both humans and dragons? Can he find the Dragon Jewel, mankind's last and only hope? And if he does, what will he do with it?
The book starts with Hiccup in exile and is nearly killed by his mother, Vallhallarama while he deactivates dragon traps. He travels to a slave jail under Alvin the Treacherous’s control to spy on Alvin. There, he finds and befriends many slaves, including his father that comb the beaches during low tide, looking for the Dragon Jewel. Alvin discovers Hiccup and makes him look for the Dragon Jewel by himself, with a deadly armed guard. A Deadly Shadow swoops down and snatches Hiccup before he has a chance to look for the Jewel. The dragon brings him to a hill to kill him, but notices that he has the lobster claw necklace. They (the dragon has three heads, Anger, Patience and Innocence) tell him that they had promised to care for a woman’s baby who was supposed to be killed by drifting through the ocean, but the woman begged them to save the baby. They lost sight of the baby however, and it drifted to Berk and grew up to be Fishlegs. Hiccup admits he is not this child, and tells them of Fishleg’s fate (which was to be sucked into a hole in the ground). He goes to this hole and gets pulled in to it by its inhabitant, and Hiccup plays dead long enough for the dragon to eat him up to the waist, which is when Hiccup stabs the dragon. He ventures off into the creature’s maze because of a mysterious voice and finds Fishlegs. He also finds the Dragon Jewel. Cressida Cowell tells readers to stop reading there if they want a happy story.
High up in the treacherous mists of the Murderous Mountains, Hiccup and the Company of the Dragonmark are in hiding. The witch's Spydragons are guarding the shores of Tomorrow - but Hiccup is determined to become King of the Wilderwest. Can Hiccup dodge the dragons and steal the King's Things back from Alvin before the Doomsday of Yule? And is there a traitor in Hiccup's camp who in the end will betray them all?
This will be the last book in the How to Train Your Dragon Series.
DreamWorks Animation released on 26 March 2010 a computer-animated film adaptation How to Train Your Dragon, directed by Chris Sanders and Dean DeBlois, the directors of Lilo & Stitch. The film features Gerard Butler as Stoick the Vast, Hiccup's father, Craig Ferguson as Gobber the Belch, and Jay Baruchel as Hiccup. The film proved to be a resounding critical and box office success, and became a major media franchise for DreamWorks Animation including upcoming a 2014 feature film sequel How to Train Your Dragon 2, with Dean DeBlois directing it.
The plot of the film is almost completely different from the first book in the series. The greatest change is how the Vikings in the book have the custom of capturing and training dragons even before the story begins – but in the film, they are fighting a fierce war against the dragons and only switch to training them after Hiccup shows that this can be done. Furthermore, Toothless is completely reimagined as an injured Night Fury dragon, a rare larger and highly intelligent breed that is capable of carrying human riders on its back as a flying mount. However, Cowell stated in her blog that she felt approvingly that the film remained "true to the spirit and message of the book." Cowell also explained that she felt that the changing of media (novel to film) triggered a necessary change in plot and characters. The Green Death is renamed the Red Death in the film. Also, Hiccup can't speak Dragonese which he can in the book. And at the end of the movie, Hiccup loses his foot.
The most notable character who appears in the film but not in the book is Astrid, a fierce Viking girl and Hiccup's love interest. However, Astrid may represent the female character Camicazi, who is present in the series of novels. Just like Camicazi, Astrid is a highly-skilled warrior and fighter who is a close friend of Hiccup's. Also, in Gift of the Night Fury, it is revealed that Astrid's Deadly Nadder dragon is named Stormfly, which is the name of Camicazi's dragon in the book.
Official website
The son of a Viking chief must capture a dragon in order to mark his passage into manhood and prove his worthiness to the tribe in directors Chris Sanders and Dean DeBlois' adaptation of Cressida Cowell's popular children's book. Gerard Butler, America Ferrera, Jonah Hill, Jay Baruchel, and Christopher Mintz-Plasse provide voices for the DreamWorks Animation production. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All How to Train Your Dragon Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 98&nbsp;mins
