Grassroots
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 99
Director: Stephen Gyllenhaal
Cast: Jason Biggs,Joel David Moore,Lauren Ambrose,Cobie Smulders,Tom Arnold,Emily Bergl,Todd Stashwick,Cedric the Entertainer,DC Pierson,Christopher McDonald,
Content: A political neophyte recruits an out-of-work reporter to help take on a Seattle city councilman, waging a valiant fight to create an urban monorail system instead of a proposed ground rail train. The year is 2001, and Grant Cogswell (Joel David Moore) has a vision: he sees a state-of-the-art monorail system connecting the city of Seattle as it's never been before. But there's one man standing in his way, and that's Seattle city councilman Richard McIver (Cedric the Entertainer). Councilman McIver has drawn up plans for an ambitious rail system -- one that Cogswell believes will be bad for the environment, and divide the city even more. Short-fused, foul-mouthed, and determined to defeat the political incumbent at all costs, Cogswell hires unemployed alternative weekly columnist Phil Campbell (Jason Biggs) to launch a massive political campaign, and quickly finds a collection of rabid volunteers who are willing to rally for his cause. 
Wiki info: 
Grassroots is a 2012 American film directed by Stephen Gyllenhaal, based on the book Zioncheck for President by Phil Campbell.
Shot in Seattle, the film revolves around a grassroots campaign for Seattle City Council and explores what happens when a dedicated activist tries to realize a vision by seeking political office.
The film tells the story of Phil Campbell (Jason Biggs), a journalist who has just lost his job and gets roped into leading Grant Cogswell's political campaign. Grant, played by Joel David Moore, is Phil's enthusiastic friend whose passion for the monorail inspires him to run for Seattle City Council. Grant is running against Richard McIver, played by Cedric the Entertainer, and although McIver has more money and more supporters, Grant's blind passion paired with Phil's strategy makes Grant a contender.

