Think_Like_a_Man
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 122
Director: Tim Story
Cast: Kevin Hart,Terrence J,Regina Hall,Jerry Ferrara,Gabrielle Union,Michael Ealy,Taraji P. Henson,Romany Malco,Meagan Good,Steve Harvey,Gary Owen,Wendy Williams,Chris Brown,Jenifer Lewis,La La Anthony,Caleel Harris,Morris Chestnut,Arielle Kebbel,Kelly Rowland,Sherri Shepherd,Tony Rock,Tika Sumpter,Keri Hilson,Luenell,Matt Barnes,Shannon Brown,Rasual Butler,Darren Collison,Lisa Leslie,Metta World Peace,
Content: This adaptation of Steve Harvey's non-fiction relationship advice book Act Like a Lady, Think Like a Man focuses on six friends who regularly get together to play basketball, and usually are commiserating about women issues. Jeremy (Jerry Ferrara) is a geeky pothead and comic-book obsessive whose career is stuck in neutral and who won't pop the question to his girlfriend of nine years. Zeke (Romany Malco) is a former musician-turned-businessman who is great at picking up the ladies but can't commit to a long-term relationship. Michael (Terrence J) is good looking and charming, but his mother still has him wrapped around her finger and doesn't want to let him go. Dominic (Michael Ealy) keeps changing career goals, and while he's an excellent chef, he hasn't found a way to make it pay. And short, motormouthed Cedric (Kevin Hart) is in the midst of a divorce and can't wait to be free of his wife. Nerdy but well-meaning Bennett (Gary Owen) is the only one in a functioning relationship, and he gets a lot of grief from his buddies for his happy marriage. 
Wiki info: 
Think Like a Man is a 2012 ensemble American romantic comedy film directed by Tim Story, written by Keith Marryman and David A. Newman, and based on Steve Harvey's 2009 book Act like a Lady, Think like a Man. The film was released on April 20, 2012 by Screen Gems Pictures.
The film follows four storylines about each of the couples, titled:
Each of the women are readers of Steve Harvey's book Act Like a Lady, Think Like a Man. When the men learn the women are hooked on Harvey's advice, they try to turn the tables on their mates, which later seems to backfire.

