Moonrise_Kingdom
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 94
Director: Wes Anderson
Cast: Jared Gilman,Kara Hayward,Bruce Willis,Edward Norton,Bill Murray,Frances McDormand,Tilda Swinton,Jason Schwartzman,Harvey Keitel,Bob Balaban,Seamus Davey-Fitzpatrick,
Content: Directorco-writer Wes Anderson teams with screenwriter Roman Coppola for this period comedy-drama set in the 1960s, in which a pair of young lovers (Jared Gilman and Kara Hayward) from an island off the New England coast head for the hills and throw their small town into a frenzy. Bruce Willis co-stars with Bill Murray, Edward Norton, and Frances McDormand. 
Wiki info: 
Moonrise Kingdom is a 2012 romantic comedy-drama film directed by Wes Anderson, written by Anderson and Roman Coppola, and starring an ensemble cast.
Filming took place in Rhode Island from April until June 29, 2011. Worldwide rights to the independently produced film were acquired by Focus Features.
The film received critical acclaim and was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay. It was also nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy.
In 1965, on an idyllic New England island called New Penzance, 12-year-old orphan Sam Shakusky (Jared Gilman) is attending a "Khaki Scout" summer camp, Camp Ivanhoe, led by Scout Master Ward (Edward Norton). Suzy Bishop (Kara Hayward) lives on the island with her attorney parents—Walt (Bill Murray) and Laura (Frances McDormand)—and three younger brothers in a house called Summer's End. Sam and Suzy met the previous summer during a church performance of Noye's Fludde and have been pen pals since then. They have made a secret pact to reunite and run away together. Sam brings camping equipment, and Suzy brings six books, her cat, and a record player. They spend several days hiking and camping together in the wilderness with the goal of reaching a secluded cove on the island, which they name Moonrise Kingdom. There they dance on the beach in their underwear and kiss. Suzy's parents, the police, and the scoutmaster eventually find them at the cove.
Suzy's parents take her home and forbid her from seeing Sam again. Sam stays with Police Captain Sharp (Bruce Willis) while they await Social Services (Tilda Swinton), who will place Sam in a "juvenile refuge" because his foster parents no longer wish to house him. The scouts, who previously were not kind to Sam, decide it is their duty to help the young lovers run away again. Suzy, Sam, and the other scouts seek out the help of Cousin Ben (Jason Schwartzman), an older relative of one of the scouts who works at the larger Khaki Scout summer camp, Fort Lebanon, run by Commander Pierce (Harvey Keitel). After many twists and turns, Sam and Suzy are apprehended on a church steeple during a violent hurricane and flash flood. The steeple is destroyed by lightning, but everyone survives.
Sharp decides to become Sam's legal guardian, saving him from the orphanage and allowing him to remain on the island and maintain contact with Suzy. At Summer's End, Sam paints a landscape of the cove and then slips out the window as Suzy and her brothers are called to dinner.

