Finding_Mr._Destiny
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 112
Director: Jang Yoo-jeong
Cast: Im Soo-jung ,Gong Yoo ,Chun Ho-jin ,Ryu Seung-soo ,Jeon Soo-kyung ,Lee Chung-ah ,Lee Je-hoon ,Kim Min-ji ,Jung Gyoo-soo ,Lee Joon-ha ,Jo Han-cheol ,Jang Young-nam ,Shin Sung-rok ,Jung Sung-hwa ,Oh Na-ra ,Choi Il-hwa ,Kim Mu-yeol ,Choi Ji-ho ,Won Ki-joon ,Jung Joon-ha ,Oh Man-seok ,Kim Dong-wook ,Uhm Ki-joon ,Paul Stafford ,
Content: Convinced that her true love bears the name Kim Jong Wook but unable to track him down since it's such a common name, frustrated Suh Ji-woo dumps her boyfriend after he proposes marriage, and turns to the Han Ki-joon's "First Love Office" to find the ever elusive man of her dreams. Meanwhile, Ki-joon vows to do everything in his power to make his first client happy - even if it means scouring all of South Korea for the right Kim Jong Wook. 
Wiki info: 
Finding Mr. Destiny (Hangul: 김종욱 찾기; RR: Kim Jong-uk chat-gi; MR: Kim Jongok ch‘atki; lit. Finding Kim Jong-wook) is a 2010 South Korean romantic comedy starring Im Soo-jung and Gong Yoo. It is a film adaptation by playwright-turned-director Jang Yoo-jeong of her hit 2006 musical. The film was a medium box office hit in South Korea selling 1,113,285 tickets nationwide.
Ji-woo (Im Soo-jung), unable to forget a youthful affair in India that has tattooed itself onto her heart, rejects an eligible suitor and is forced by her father, who fears she will end up an old maid, to seek the help of an agency that specializes in tracking down first loves. She only knows his name: Kim Jong-wook.
Heading the business is Gi-joon (Gong Yoo), who is young, single and male, and equipped with goofy charm. Stubbornly precise by nature and a bit too passionate about work, Gi-joon is determined to complete his first job, even if it means he has to track down every Kim Jong-wook in Korea!
The heroine is a disheveled and foulmouthed theater director who has yet to make amends with her inability to finish or start anything substantial in both her love life and career. The hero is a naive guy with an obsessive compulsive fixation on order, safety and hygiene — manifested in his perfectly pressed attire and color-coded post-its — who has yet to leap into a whirlwind life experience.
The two are polar opposites yet eventually grow fond of each other as they bicker along the way to find Ji-woo’s elusive Mr. Destiny — and it’s a long journey since there are 1,108 men who have the same name as her ex-boyfriend, from a Buddhist monk to an overweight farmer and a really unctuous plastic surgeon, to name a few.
As Gi-joon and Ji-woo travel around the country trying to find her first love, Gi-joon finds himself falling for his client instead.

