That's_My_Boy
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 116
Director: John Morris
Cast: Adam Sandler,Justin Weaver,Ian Ziering,Andy Samberg,Leighton Meester,Susan Sarandon,Eva Amurri Martino,Ciara,Luenell,Vanilla Ice,Milo Ventimiglia,Rex Ryan,Peggy Stewart,Tony Orlando,Alan Thicke,James Caan,Dan Patrick,Will Forte,Rachel Dratch,Blake Clark,Colin Quinn,Nick Swardson,Ana Gasteyer,Todd Bridges,Baron Davis,Dennis Dugan,Jackie Sandler (Sandler's real-life wife),Brad Grunberg,
Content: A single father finds his lackluster parenting skills coming back to haunt him in this Adam Sandler comedy directed by Sean Anders (Sex Drive). As a teenage father, Donny (Sandler) struggled to raise his son Todd (Andy Samberg) until Todd was old enough to strike out on his own. Subsequently estranged from his father for years, Todd is about to marry the love of his life when Donny turns up determined to form the father-son bond they never had. Now the harder Donny tries to connect with his long-lost son, the more furious Todd's future bride grows with the unwelcomed intruder and his obnoxious antics. Leighton Meester and James Caan co-star. 
Wiki info: 
That's My Boy is a 2012 American comedy film starring Adam Sandler and Andy Samberg. The script was written by David Caspe and directed by Sean Anders.
The film was produced under Sandler's production company Happy Madison, and shot in Massachusetts, around Boston, Everett, Peabody, Lynn, Brockton, Stoughton and Cape Cod. The film was released on June 15, 2012, and distributed by Columbia Pictures.
The film received very negative reviews from critics and is nominated for eight Golden Raspberry Awards, ultimately winning in the categories of Worst Actor and Worst Screenplay. The film has been subject of controversy and criticism due to its comedic portrayal of pedophilia, incest and statutory rape. It is the sixth Sandler film to be rated R by the Motion Picture Association of America. That's My Boy was a box office failure, grossing $57.7 million worldwide, thus failing to reimburse its $70 million budget.
In 1984, 13-year-old Donny Berger begins a sexual relationship with his teacher Mary McGarricle. When the two are discovered having sexual intercourse on a piano during an assembly, she is sentenced to a lengthy prison term where it is revealed she is pregnant; Donny is left to raise their son, who he names Han Solo Berger.
By 2012, Donny (Adam Sandler) is an alcoholic slacker, who spends his time with his friends, bartender Brie (Ciara) and stripper Champale (Luenell). Donny is estranged from his son, who, embarrassed by Donny's immaturity, has changed his name to Todd Peterson and managed to become a successful businessman. He has recently arrived at the Cape Cod house of his boss, where he is to be married to Jamie (Leighton Meester).
Donny learns from his lawyer, Jim Nance, that he owes $43,000 to the IRS in back-taxes and will be imprisoned for three years if he doesn't repay the money by the end of the weekend. He visits TV producer Randall Morgan, who had produced shows for Donny during his brief period of celebrity, and Morgan offers him $50,000 if he can organize a reunion with Han and Mary McGarricle at the women's prison.
Donny arrives at Cape Cod to try to convince Todd to participate. Because he had previously told people that his parents had died, Todd introduces Donny as an old friend; Donny elaborates with a heroic backstory and, despite his extremely crude behavior, quickly becomes well-liked by the other guests, at the expense of Todd's popularity. Donny tries to convince Todd to come to the women's prison to see his mother, without revealing that it is for a tv show, but Todd refuses. Todd fights constantly with Donny about his father's immaturity, both now and during his childhood. Donny admitted he was wrong for his actions and should've stopped him, but he didn't know how to be a father.
Donny joins Todd and his friends at Todd's bachelor party, a relaxing day at a spa. However, Donny offends the employees and guests and eventually convinces the wedding party to attend a strip club where Todd bonds with Brie. The group gets drunk and high and commits various acts of debauchery. Over the course of the evening, Todd bonds with his father and agrees to meet Mary McGarrigle at the prison. Donny, knowing that a tv crew will be waiting, tries to stop the meeting from happening, but Todd goes to the prison anyway. Todd, Donny, and Mary are ambushed by the film crew and a disgusted Todd leaves without signing a release form, leaving Donny without any money.
Donny overhears Jamie on the phone saying that she has been having sex with Todd's boss. He tries to warn Todd, but Jamie comes up with a convincing cover story. Later, Donny discovers Jamie having sex with her brother. She pays Donny the money he needs in order to keep him quiet.
After receiving a conciliatory present from Todd, Donny decides that he has to stop the wedding. At the ceremony he reveals himself to be Todd's father and rips up Jamie's check, and forces her to admit her infidelity to Todd. A disgusted Todd breaks up with Jamie and quits his job, acknowledging Donny as his father and even taking back his birth name of Han Solo Berger.
The following day at the strip club, Han reveals that he is dating Brie. He offers Donny the money to help pay for the unpaid taxes, but he refuses stating that it's time for him to grow up and accept responsibility. Donny is preparing to go to prison when a bet he placed wins him enough money to satisfy the IRS. The film ends with Donny and Todd celebrating with the rest of their friends.

