Vamps
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 93
Director: Amy Heckerling
Cast: Alicia Silverstone,Krysten Ritter,Dan Stevens,Richard Lewis,Wallace Shawn,Justin Kirk,Malcolm McDowell,Sigourney Weaver,Marilu Henner,Kristen Johnston,Zak Orth,Larry Wilmore,Meredith Scott Lynn,Brian Backer,Taylor Negron,Amir Arison,Todd Barry,Gael García Bernal,Joel Michaely,
Content: Radiant New York City vampires Goody (Alicia Silverstone) and Stacy (Krysten Ritter) find their immortality in question after they learn that true love endures in the realm of the undead. Meanwhile, Russian bloodsucker Vadim (Justin Kirk) prowls the streets in search of the next big thrill, Dr. Van Helsing (Wallace Shawn) seeks to exterminate the creatures of the night, and young Joey Van Helsing (Dan Stevens) develops an unusual fixation on Stacy. As ravenous vampire Cisserus (Sigourney Weaver) presides over her dark dynasty with the help of her loyal assistant Ivan (Todd Barry), oddball Renfield (Zak Orth) strives to impress Stacy and Goody by any means necessary. Amidst all of the bloodshed and intrigue, nefarious vampire Vlad (Malcolm McDowell) works to perfect his knitting skills. 
Wiki info: 
Amy Heckerling
Vamps is a 2012 American comedy horror film that reunites Clueless director Amy Heckerling with actors Alicia Silverstone and Wallace Shawn and was released on November 2, 2012.
The film centers around Stacy (Krysten Ritter) and Goody (Alicia Silverstone), two socialite vampires living the good life in New York City. Goody was turned in 1841 by the vampire queen Ciccerus (Sigourney Weaver). She struggled with her life as a vampire until Stacy was turned by Ciccerus sometime during the 1990s. Goody was able to teach Stacy how to use her new abilities, like sustaining themselves on rat blood, but keeps her actual age a secret because she is afraid of being viewed as old.
While at a vampire meeting, Stacy explains how she struggled with drug addiction as a human, but is now happy since being a vampire gave her a second-chance. Goody also discovers that if their maker or "stem" Ciccerus is ever killed, they would revert to their human ages. While working at a hospital as exterminators, Goody runs into her ex-boyfriend Danny (Richard Lewis), who she has not seen since the 1960s. They re-connect under the pretense that she is Goody's daughter, but Danny eventually learns the truth. When he asks why she left him, Goody explains that even though she loved him, she did not want to stand in his way of finding someone he can actually build a life with.
Meanwhile, Stacy begins a relationship with a young human named Joey (Dan Stevens). It is soon revealed that Joey is the son of the infamous vampire slayer Dr. Van Helsing (Wallace Shawn) whom is in town to find and kill Ciccerus. After experiencing strange vomiting, Goody discovers that Stacy is actually pregnant, but that the baby won't survive unless she becomes human again. Goody and Stacy team up with Joey and Dr. Val Helsing to track down Ciccerus and after a struggle, they end up killing Ciccerus in order for Stacy to keep her and her boyfriend, Joey's, baby. Stacy is now around 40 years old, and Goody rapidly ages into an old woman. Revealing her actual age, Goody accompanies Joey and Stacy to Times Square where Goody reminisces about her life. As the sun rises, she disintegrates into ash.
In the final scene set a few years later, Stacy and Joey show up at Dr. Van Helsing's house to introduce their new daughter whom they have named after Goody. As Van Helsing picks up his grand daughter, he notices that the little girl sports a set of vampire fangs.

