L!fe_Happens
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 101
Director: Kat Coiro
Cast: Krysten Ritter,Kate Bosworth,Rachel Bilson,Kristen Johnston,Fallon Goodson,Geoff Stults,Jason Biggs,Justin Kirk,Rhys Coiro,
Content: Three single Las Angeles roommates find their carefree lifestyle disrupted by the demands of parenthood when one of them gets pregnant following a one-night-stand. Kim (Krysten Ritter), Deena (Kate Bosworth) and Laura (Rachel Bilson) are all young, pretty and available. But when Kim gets knocked-up during a carefree fling, late-night feedings take the place of endless pub crawls. Fortunately for mother and child, Deena and Laura make great aunts. Meanwhile, as Kim prepares to dive back into the dating pool, she begins to sense a seismic shift in her standards for men. 
Wiki info: 
L!fe Happens is a 2011 comedy film directed by Kat Coiro and written by Coiro and Krysten Ritter. The film stars Ritter, Kate Bosworth, Kristen Johnston, George Stults, Jason Biggs, and Rachel Bilson. Ritter plays the main character, Kim, who lives with her two roommates, Deena (Bosworth) and Laura (Bilson), in Los Angeles. Kim becomes pregnant after a one-night-stand so she turns to her friends for help. L!fe Happens opened in theaters on April 13, 2012.
Deena (Kate Bosworth) and Kim (Krysten Ritter) each bring home a guy one night. Realizing they have no condoms, they go looking around in their house where Deena ultimately finds the last one and Kim has unprotected sex. One year later, Kim is a single mother. She still lives with her two girlfriends, Deena and Laura (Rachel Bilson) while trying to juggle her son named Max. She takes Max to his father Mark (Coiro) but he announces that he is not interested in being a father. Kim brings Max along to work with her one day, as a dog service company assistant to her youth-obsessed boss Francesca (Kristen Johnston). Franchesca reprimands Kim for bringing Max with her and says that she would be fired if she does it again. Kim then takes Max to her grandfather (Seymour Cassel) who is currently living in a retirement home. Meanwhile, Deena tries to finish writing her book in a library and ends up hooking up with a guy. One night, as Kim works as a bouncer in one of Francesca's party, she falls for a guy named Nicolas (Stults) who was with two of his friends, Henri (Kirk) and Sergei (Biggs), attending the party. That night, Francesca finally allows Kim to have a break and meet up with Nicolas who promised to buy her a drink earlier and they spend the night getting to know each other. They quickly form a relationship after Nicolas intently asks Francesca to have Kim take his dog in his house. Kim brings along Max with her yet again where she lies to Nicolas that Max is a child of one of her roommates and that she was just relied on to look after Max. Kim asks Deena to come with her on her date with Nicolas that evening where Deena agrees. Nicholas arrives along with his friend Henri, where they look to Deena as her roommate with the baby. Kim begs Deena to just go with the lie they've come up with where Deena responds that it wouldn't take long enough for them to know that Kim is the one with a baby. They have a double date where it seems that Deena and Henri are attracted to each other, although Henri dresses up in hippie clothing. The next day, Deena seems promoted from her career as a writer when someone could recognize her from an article she wrote. Kim on the other hand, seems to be an underdog as Francesca wouldn't allow to invest in her own dog service business. Laura, the other roommate seems to be unstable as she has been shifting jobs every week. Kim asks her to take care of Max since she has a date with Nicholas that night, but tells her she can't. She then freaks out and calls Deena who isn't answering her calls. Finally, she asks a young boy to babysit Max for her. Nicolas and Kim have sex after their romantic date, but not long enough before Nicolas discovers Kim's secret when milk pops out of her breasts. This leaves Nicholas upset and Kim leaves. On her way home, she sees a paramedic leave and asks Deena what happened. Kim yells at Deena for not returning home early where Deena strikes back at her saying that Max is her responsibility and there is nothing that could excuse her behavior. Deena and Kim's friendship is compromised. Kim spends all day around the house and finally quits her job telling Francesca she never looked 21. The next day, Kim confides to Deena that she has to move out of the house and focus her life on being a mother and as for Deena, her successful career. Kim buys a house and visits Marc who regrets everything he said about not being ready and he wants a shot of being a dad for once. Laura then enters a show competition and seems to be successful. Kim finally reconciles with Deena and Nicolas where they all play pool together.

