Pitch_Perfect
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 112
Director: Jason Moore
Cast: Anna Kendrick,Skylar Astin,Anna Camp,Brittany Snow,Rebel Wilson,Ester Dean,Alexis Knapp,Hana Mae Lee,Ben Platt,Adam DeVine,Utkarsh Ambudkar,Freddie Stroma,Jinhee Joung,Christopher Mintz-Plasse,John Michael Higgins,Elizabeth Banks,John Benjamin Hickey,
Content: A feisty coed joins a collegiate a cappella group and upgrades their song selection for the 21st century during the run-up to a major competition in this melodic comedy from Tony-nominated Avenue Q director Jason Moore. Drifting past the various cliques after arriving at college, Beca (Anna Kendrick) pays more attention to the jams pumping in her headphones than the people she passes on her way to class. But all that changes the moment she stumbles into the one place where every misfit has a voice -- the campus a cappella group. Although the competition amongst the singers proves surprisingly fierce, there's just one aspect of the group Beca can't wrap her head around: All of the songs they perform are at least a decade old. Convinced that they can do better by adding some contemporary tunes into the mix, Beca whips up an exciting new set list that will set the group apart and leave their rivals in the dust. Brittany Snow, Anna Camp, and Rebel Wilson co-star. 
Wiki info: 
Pitch Perfect is a 2012 American musical comedy film directed by Jason Moore. The screenplay was written by Kay Cannon. The musical comedy features an ensemble cast consisting of Anna Kendrick, Skylar Astin, Rebel Wilson, Anna Camp, Brittany Snow, Ester Dean, Alexis Knapp, Hana Mae Lee, Ben Platt, Adam DeVine, with John Michael Higgins, and Elizabeth Banks. The plot follows an all girl college a cappella group, The Barden Bellas, as they compete against another a cappella group from their college to win Nationals. The film is loosely adapted from Mickey Rapkin's non-fiction novel, also titled Pitch Perfect. Filming concluded in Mid-December 2011, in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
The film premiered in Los Angeles on September 24, 2012. Released on September 28, 2012 in the United States, Pitch Perfect grossed over $65 million domestically and $45 million internationally, as well as peaking at #3 at the box office. The film became the second highest grossing musical comedy film behind School of Rock.
The film was also met with positive reviews from critics, receiving an 81% positive rating on the review website Rotten Tomatoes based on 135 reviews. It was mostly praised by critics for its comedic approach, its flashy musical numbers, and the performance of Wilson.
Beca Mitchell (Anna Kendrick), a newly arrived freshman at Barden University, has no desire in attending college, though she is forced to attend by her father (John Benjamin Hickey), a professor at the university. Wishing to instead move to Los Angeles to pursue a career in music making, Beca takes up an internship at the school radio station, where she meets fellow freshman Jesse Swanson (Skylar Astin), who develops a not-so-secret crush on her. When Beca's father discovers she has not been attending classes, he comes to her with a proposition: if she joins a club and still does not want to remain at college, he will allow and pay for Beca to move to Los Angeles. After some persuasion from group leader Aubrey Posen (Anna Camp) and Chloe Beale (Brittany Snow), she joins the all-girl a cappella group Barden Bellas, joining alongside a group of other women who do not fit the Bellas' typical mold: the misunderstood Cynthia-Rose (Ester Dean), the sexually driven Stacie Conrad (Alexis Knapp), the awkwardly quiet Lilly Onakuramara (Hana Mae Lee), who speaks inaudibly, and the irresponsible and eccentric Fat Amy (Rebel Wilson).
At group rehearsal, Aubrey's controlling nature gets on the nerves of the other girls, especially Beca. She is constantly critical and insists that they use the same set list the Bellas have been using for years, which clashes with Beca's original style. Meanwhile, Beca hangs out with Jesse, who has joined the Treblemakers, the Bellas' main rival. Aubrey warns the group not to have any sexual contact with the Treblemakers, or they'll be forced to leave the Bellas. Beca plays several of her own mixes of contemporary songs for him, and he compliments her for her talent. After learning that Beca doesn't like movies, never even making it through a movie from beginning to end because she loses interest, Jesse tries to get Beca to watch the ending of The Breakfast Club, one of his favorite movies.
Meanwhile, the Bellas attempt to put aside their issues and participate in the Southeastern regional competition at Carolina University. In spite of their distasteful set list, the group manages to place second at the regional a cappella competition, which gives them the bid to semi-finals. On their way to the semi-finals, however, the group stops for gas where Fat Amy is hit with a burrito by Bumper Allen (Adam DeVine), the leader of the Treblemakers, as they drive past in their own bus. After the other girls clean her up, they continue on their way but run out of gas, as Fat Amy had forgotten to actually pump gas into the bus after getting hit with the burrito. They are then forced to call the Treblemakers to drive them to the venue, which then leads to some smack talk during the car ride there.
Once at the semi-finals, Beca notices how bored the audience is with Aubrey's traditional and overused arrangement, so she provides impromptu back-up, David Guetta and Sia "Titanium." The Bellas come in third in the competition behind the Treblemakers and the Footnotes; even though the audience seemed to enjoy Beca's remix, Aubrey becomes furious and yells at Beca, who quits the group after yelling at both Aubrey and Jesse. When the Footnotes are disqualified after the discovery that their lead singer was still in high school, the Barden Bellas are called to Nationals in their place. The Bellas get back together after returning from spring break, with the notable exception of Beca.
During this time, Beca begins working as a DJ at the Barden radio station, playing her music on the overnight shift while also steadily distancing herself from Jesse. Upon finding a copy of The Breakfast Club and watching it in its entirety, however, she realizes how much she needs the Bellas and Jesse in her life. Her father convinces her to rejoin the Bellas, whom she finds falling apart during rehearsal. After having a heart-to-heart in which they revealed secrets about themselves, the Bellas appoint Beca as their group leader and decide to adopt Beca's more modern music style. Meanwhile, Bumper leaves the Treblemakers after being offered a job as a back-up singer for John Mayer. With Nationals approaching and the group short a member, Jesse becomes the new group leader and persuades the Trebles to allow Benji (Ben Platt) to join the group in Bumper's place.
At the a cappella national competition at Lincoln Center, the Bellas sing a piece arranged by Beca. Once their performance is over, Beca reunites with Jesse with a kiss. Fast forward to six months later, auditions are beginning for the new year and the Treblemakers and the Bellas are preparing to select new members for their groups; Jesse and Benji are shown sitting at a desk in the auditions hall, followed by Beca and the Barden Bellas, along with their trophy from Nationals.

