Parental_Guidance
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 105
Director: Andy Fickman
Cast: Billy Crystal,Bette Midler,Marisa Tomei,Tom Everett Scott,Bailee Madison,Joshua Rush,Kyle Harrison Breitkopf,Gedde Watanabe,Cade Jones,Maverick Moreno,Madison Lintz,Karan Kendrick,Tony Hawk,Steve Levy,
Content: Billy Crystal and Bette Midler star as Artie and Diane -- an old-school grandfather and his people-pleasing wife, who babysit for their three decidedly 21st century grandchildren while the kids' type-A parents (played by Marisa Tomei and Tom Everett Scott) are away for work. Artie's traditional ideas go toe-to-toe with the kids' (and their parents') cutting-edge, multitasking ways, but this modern family comes to learn that love, understanding, and an openness to trying new and old things, will always keep a family together. Andy Fickman directs from a script by Lisa Addario and Joe Syracuse. 
Wiki info: 
Parental Guidance (previously titled Us & Them) is a 2012 American family-comedy film starring Billy Crystal, Bette Midler, Marisa Tomei and Tom Everett Scott and directed by Andy Fickman. The film was released on December 25, 2012.
Artie is fired from being an announcer of a baseball team because he is elderly and schooled, meaning he doesn't know about the new technology or how to use it. Artie is very upset, because he was the best at the job. Meanwhile, Alice and her husband decide to go on a honeymoon. Alice wants her husband's parents to look after the kids, but disappointed when the grandparents are busy. They don't want to let Alice's parents (Artie and Diane) to look after the children because they are "weird". Diane agrees to go, while Artie disagrees. Artie and Diane agree to visit Atlanta to look after their three grandchildren when their parents (type-A helicopter parents)) need to leave town for work. They notice that Alice posted were not their own posters, but the other grandparents pictures. Diane is determined to prove to her grandchildren that they aren't just the 'other grandparents'. Problems arise when the kids' 21st-century behaviors collide with Artie and Diane's old-school methods. Although at the beginning of the week, Alice doesn't trust her parents to look after her kids, by the end they become more than just the 'other grandparents'.
Artie tells his grandchildren to call him Artie and never "Grandpa", because he was always called Artie. Artie is nicknamed Fartie by the youngest child, Parker, who is very defiant and cheeky. Harper is very tense for a violin audition, her grandmother tells her she should have some fun and not worry about her audition, while Alice disagrees until later when she realizes that Harper doesn't want to audition. Turner has speech classes due to a stutter but with the help of his grandfather, he overcomes this.

