Seven_Psychopaths
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 110
Director: Martin McDonagh
Cast: Colin Farrell,Sam Rockwell,Woody Harrelson,Christopher Walken,Tom Waits,Abbie Cornish,Olga Kurylenko,Željko Ivanek,Linda Bright Clay,Long Nguyen,Harry Dean Stanton,Amanda Mason Warren,James Hébert,Christine Marzano,Kevin Corrigan,Gabourey Sidibe,Michael Pitt,Michael Stuhlbarg,Helena Mattsson,Crispin Glover,
Content: Three friends (Colin Farrell, Christopher Walken, and Sam Rockwell) incur the wrath of a violent L.A. gangster (Woody Harrelson) by kidnapping his prized shih tzu in this black comedy from In Bruges director Martin McDonagh. Aspiring screenwriter Marty (Farrell) has a brilliant screenplay called Seven Psychopaths floating around in his head; unfortunately he's usually to hungover to make any real progress on it. Meanwhile, Marty's best friend Billy (Rockwell) has some great ideas for the story, but he's reluctant to offer input without invitation. A down-on-his-luck actor, Billy pays his rent by running a lucrative dognapping scam with smooth-talking Hans (Walken). Just when frustrated Marty begins to fear that all of his ideas have dried up, however, Billy shows up with an adorable shih zhu swiped from a quick-tempered gangster (Harrelson), and a desperate trip into the desert finds the ideas flowing like drinks at an open bar. 
Wiki info: 
Seven Psychopaths is a 2012 British black comedy film written, co-produced and directed by Martin McDonagh. It stars Colin Farrell, Sam Rockwell, Woody Harrelson and Christopher Walken. The film marks the second collaboration between McDonagh and Farrell, following 2008's In Bruges.
Seven Psychopaths had its world premiere on 7 September 2012 at the Toronto International Film Festival. It was released in the United States and Canada on 12 October 2012, and it was released in the United Kingdom on 7 December 2012.
Marty Faranan is a struggling writer who dreams of finishing his screenplay, Seven Psychopaths. Marty's best friend, Billy Bickle, is an unemployed actor who makes a living by kidnapping dogs and collecting the owners' cash rewards for their safe return. His partner in crime is Hans Kieslowski, a religious man with a cancer-stricken wife, Myra. Billy helps Marty with Seven Psychopaths, suggesting he use the "Jack of Diamonds" killer, perpetrator of a recent double murder, as one of the seven "psychopaths" in his script. Marty writes a story for another psychopath, the "Quaker", who stalks his daughter's killer for decades, driving the killer to suicide and ultimately cutting his own throat to follow him to hell.
Billy and Hans steal a Shih Tzu, Bonny, unaware that it is the beloved pet of Charlie Costello, an unpredictable and violent gangster. Billy places an advertisement in the newspaper inviting "psychopaths" to call and share their "crazy or quirky" stories for him and Marty to use in their script. Charlie's thugs, led by Paulo, discover Hans's connection to the kidnapping. At a warehouse, they threaten to kill Marty and Hans unless they reveal Bonny's location, but the Jack of Diamonds killer arrives and shoots the thugs. Marty and Billy meet Zachariah Rigby, who saw the advertisement and came to share his story. In his youth, Zachariah rescued a girl, Maggie, from a killer's basement. As a couple, they embarked on a long career as "serial killer killers", travelling America and dispatching murderers, ultimately separating when he became disillusioned with her cruel methods. Marty promises to place a message in the credits of Seven Psychopaths, asking Maggie to contact the regretful Zachariah. Charlie traces Myra to the cancer ward, killing her when she refuses to tell him Hans or Bonny's whereabouts. Marty, Billy and Hans leave town with Bonny to escape Charlie. Marty tells the Quaker story to Hans, who reveals that it is true: Hans himself was the Quaker, and survived his attempted suicide. Marty unknowingly wrote his story after hearing it from Billy while drunk.
The trio drive into the desert. Billy suggests Seven Psychopaths end with an emotional shootout between the psychopaths and Charlie's forces. Marty and Hans see a headline saying Billy is wanted in connection with the Jack of Diamonds killings. Marty confronts Billy, who reveals he assumed the Jack of Diamonds persona and went on a killing spree to give Marty inspiration for Seven Psychopaths. Disillusioned, Marty tells Billy they must go home. Meanwhile, Hans has a vision of Myra in a "grey place". Hans questions his belief in the afterlife, dismissing Marty's reassurances that his vision was a peyote hallucination. Billy sets fire to the car, stranding the trio in the desert, and calls Charlie, telling him their location. Billy intends to make the climactic shootout he envisioned a reality. Upset by Hans's loss of faith, Billy claims he caused the hallucination by impersonating Myra. Hans leaves.
Charlie arrives alone, without a weapon besides a flare gun in his car. Billy shoots Charlie, enraged that he has not brought the men and weapons required for a satisfying shootout. Hans finds Charlie's thugs waiting for a flare signal nearby. Marty drives away with Charlie, intending to bring him to a hospital. Billy realises the flare gun's purpose and fires a flare. Hans motions as if to draw a weapon, causing Paulo to shoot him in front of police. The thugs head towards Billy's flare, police in pursuit, only to encounter Marty and Charlie's car on the road. Charlie reveals that he only suffered a flesh wound. Now with backup, Charlie returns to Billy and Bonny's location. After a shootout, Charlie and Billy have a stand-off, holding Marty and Bonny hostage respectively. Charlie releases Marty and shoots Billy just as the police arrive. Charlie and Paulo are arrested, but Bonny stays at the dying Billy's side. Marty visits the scene of Hans's death, and finds a tape recorder with suggestions for Seven Psychopaths on his body. Later, Marty finishes the screenplay at home, having adopted Bonny as a pet. Marty steps outside and walks down the street, script in hand.
In a post-credits scene, Marty receives a phone call from Zachariah, who has just watched Seven Psychopaths and seen that Marty has forgotten to include a message for Maggie in the credits. Zachariah tells Marty that he will be over to kill him on Tuesday. On hearing Marty's resigned acceptance, Zachariah realises that Marty's experiences have left him a changed man, and decides to spare him for the time being.

