Salmon_Fishing_in_the_Yemen
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 107
Director: Lasse Hallström
Cast: Ewan McGregor,Emily Blunt,Kristin Scott Thomas,Amr Waked,Rachael Stirling,Catherine Steadman,Tom Mison,Hugh Simon,Conleth Hill,Steven Blake,Waleed Akhtar,Pippa Andre,Simone Liebman,Colin Kilkelly,James Cutting,Wadah Almaqtari,Mohammed Awadh,Hamza Saeed,Wail Hajar,Hamish Gray,Abdul Alhumikani,
Content: A handful of curious Brits become fish out of water when they get mixed up in the dream project of an eccentric sheikh in this satirical comedy.  Emily Blunt is Harriet Chetwode-Talbot, a British businesswoman who manages the financial affairs of a wealthy but  eccentric Arab named Sheikh Muhammed (Amr Waked). Muhammed's latest proposition involves paying fifty million pounds to fully stock a Yemeni river with salmon, and thus engender sport fishing in the desert region. To better gauge the feasibility of this wild plan, Harriet contactsDr. Alfred "Fred" Jones (Ewan McGregor), a Scottish scientist who specializes in establishing fisheries. Jones shoots the plan down instantly, but soon Patricia Maxwell (Kristin Scott Thomas), the press secretary to the British prime minister, catches wind of it and sees it as the ideal way to promote better international relations between England and the Middle East, especially in light of the torrent of bad news concerning terrorism and general unrest in the Arabic countries.  She does everything she can to turn Jones around. Though the scientist will have no part of it at first, he's threatened with job termination if he refuses, and then sets out to create a fully stocked lake in the middle of the desert. As Jones takes on a project that ranks somewhere between ridiculous and impossible, he also finds he's falling in love with Chetwode-Talbot, though the fact that he's married and she has a boyfriend (Tom Mison) fighting in the Middle East makes things sticky. Based on the best-selling novel by Paul Torday, Salmon Fishing in the Yemen received its world premiere at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
Salmon Fishing in the Yemen is a 2011 British romantic comedy and drama film directed by Lasse Hallström and starring Ewan McGregor, Emily Blunt, Kristin Scott Thomas and Amr Waked. Based on the 2007 novel of the same name by Paul Torday, and a screenplay by Simon Beaufoy, the film is about a fisheries expert who is recruited by a consultant to help realize a sheikh's vision of bringing the sport of fly fishing to the Yemen desert, initiating an upstream journey of faith to make the impossible possible. The film was shot on location in London, Scotland, and Morocco from August to October 2010. The film premiered at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. The film received generally positive reviews from critics upon its release, and earned $34,564,651 in revenue worldwide.
Renowned fisheries expert, Doctor Alfred Jones (Ewan McGregor), receives an email from financial advisor Harriet Chetwode-Talbot (Emily Blunt), seeking advice on a project to bring salmon fishing to the Yemen—a project being bankrolled by a wealthy Yemeni sheikh. Jones dismisses the project as "fundamentally unfeasible" because the Yemen cannot provide the necessary cold temperatures and water needed to sustain salmon. Meanwhile, the British Prime Minister's overzealous press secretary, Patricia Maxwell (Kristen Scott Thomas), frustrated by news accounts of an accidental mosque bombing in Afghanistan, instructs her team to find a positive story to help improve relations between Britain and the islamic world. Later, she suggests the salmon fishing story to the PM's office.
Jones is soon pressured by his boss to meet with Harriet and support the salmon fishing project. When they meet, he expresses his doubts, but Harriet patiently corrects Jones' misconceptions of the Yemen environment, telling him about a dam that can play an important role in the project's success. Frustrated by her optimism, Jones storms out of the meeting. Later, after his boss presents him with an ultimatum, he accepts a position on the project, despite his concerns that it may ruin his reputation in the scientific community.
At their next meeting, Jones gives a presentation on what is needed for the project—including transporting by air thousands of salmon from British rivers to the Yemen at a cost of £50 million. Harriet takes his plan seriously and arranges for Jones to meet the "visionary" sheikh (Amr Waked) at his riverside estate in the Scottish Highlands. When Jones arrives, he is provided fishing gear, and soon the skeptical scientist feels at home. The sheikh is excited to meet Jones, the inventor of the "Woolly Jones", a famous fishing fly. Acknowledging that the project may sound crazy, the sheikh still believes that fishing is a noble pursuit that promotes harmony among people. Later, when Jones claims to be a man of no faith, the sheikh points out that fishing requires immense faith in an outcome that is highly improbable.
Back in London, Jones begins to show genuine interest in the project. After his career-focused wife accepts a position in Geneva, Jones realizes his marriage is over, and he devotes himself to the project. Despite his painfully formal social interactions, he enjoys working with Harriet, who is pleased at the progress they are making. Their enthusiasm is interrupted, however, when Harriet learns that her new boyfriend, Robert, is missing in action in Afghanistan. Devastated, Harriet withdraws to her apartment. Concerned over Harriet's depression, Jones comes to her apartment, where Harriet responds in anger, thinking he simply wants her to return to work, but when she sees his concern is genuine—he's brought her a sandwich and some wine—she breaks down and embraces him.
Meanwhile, the sheikh continues his work, despite the pressure of radicals who accuse him of introducing evil Western ways to their region. Back in Scotland, Patricia joins Harriet and Jones at the sheikh's estate, where she explains that because of the spirited opposition by fly fishermen to removing salmon from British rivers, they will need to proceed with farmed salmon. The sheikh does not believe that salmon bred in captivity will ever survive; even Jones is doubtful. When the sheikh rejects her offer, Jones resigns his government job to continue with the project.
The next day, Jones convinces the sheikh to give the farmed salmon a try. Although his science background tells him otherwise, Jones has faith that the salmon will instinctively swim upstream—a faith the sheikh finds ironic. Just then, a man hired by Yemeni radicals attempts to assassinate the sheikh, who is saved by Jones' quick thinking and accurate casting technique. Soon after, they return to the Yemen, where helicopters arrive carrying pods filled with salmon. Harriet and Jones continue to grow closer. After a moonlight swim, he asks her if there was a "theoretical possibility" of the two of them ending up together. She says yes, but will need some time.
Meanwhile in London, Patricia learns that Harriet's boyfriend survived the Afghanistan operation. Realizing the PR potential of reuniting the couple at the upcoming press conference in Yemen, Patricia sets her plan in motion. At the press conference, while Jones and Harriet awkwardly acknowledge their feelings for each other—he presents her with a fly he made and named the "Chetwode-Talbot Beauty"—Harriet's boyfriend Robert arrives and the couple are reunited, leaving Jones heartbroken. That night, Harriet realizes her feelings for Robert have changed, and when Jones gets a text message from his wife asking him to return, he declines.
During a brief speech the following day, the sheikh explains that he built the dam to irrigate the land and give his people a better life. When they open the pods, at first the salmon float with the current, but then one fish starts to swim upstream, and then others, and soon everyone celebrates the success of the project. Later, while Robert and the foreign minister fly-fish for the photographers, terrorists break into the dam, kill a guard, and open the flood gates. Although the party survive the resulting flash flood, the valley is left in ruins. The sheikh blames himself for the tragedy, saying he expected too much of people to understand what he was trying to do. He vows to rebuild the dam—this time with the support of the local community.
The next day, as Harriet prepares to leave, she approaches Jones to say goodbye. Their parting is awkward, with neither mentioning their romantic feelings for each other. Just then, the sheikh calls out and points to where a salmon is jumping from the water. The salmon are alive! Filled with hope, Jones tells Harriet he will stay and help them rebuild. Harriet asks if he will need an assistant—"a partner"—and he realizes she is talking about herself. They embrace each other, and then hold hands while looking out over the river.

