Jesus_Henry_Christ
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 95
Director: Dennis Lee
Cast: Jason Spevack – Henry James Herman,Toni Collette – Patricia Herman,Michael Sheen – Dr. Slavkin O'Hara,Samantha Weinstein – Audrey O'Hara,Frank Moore - Stan Herman,Cameron Kennedy – Jimmy Herman,Mark Caven – President Sullivan,Paul Braunstein - Dr. Gunther Flowers,
Content: A 10-year-old genius embarks on a search for his real father, and gets more than a few unexpected surprises along the way in the quirky sophomore feature from Fireflies in the Garden writerdirector Dennis Lee. Henry James Hermin (Jason Spevack) began speaking in full sentences before he was a year old. And before he's even reached his teens, he's already in college. But the older Henry gets, the more he begins to wonder why he doesn't have a father. The son of a left-wing feminist named Patricia (Toni Collette), Henry is investigating his origins when he's kicked out of school for penning a controversial essay, and his grandfather Stan (Frank Moore) makes a shocking revelation: Henry is a test-tube baby. Upon learning that he has a half-sister named Audrey (Samantha Weinstein), and that she was conceived so that her father Dr. Slavkin O'Hara (Michael Sheen) could pen a best-seller titled "Born Gay or Made That Way?" the precocious boy decides to seek out his long-lost sibling. Later, as Henry and Audrey attempt to map out their family tree, the twisted roots make tracing their origins a formidable challenge, and a new kind of family begins to emerge. 
Wiki info: 
Jesus Henry Christ is a 2012 comedy film based on Dennis Lee's Academy Award-winning student short film of the same name.
At the age of ten, young genius Henry James Herman (Jason Spevack), a boy who was conceived in a petri dish and raised by his feminist mother, decides his mother's love is not enough. After discovering he has a half sister he figures out who his biological father is. His father, Dr. O'Hara (Michael Sheen), is overcome with feelings of guilt and depression, but finds hope at the news he has a son.

