Brewster's_Millions
Released Year: 1945
Running time: 79
Director: Allan Dwan
Cast: Dennis O'Keefe,Helen Walker,June Havoc,Eddie "Rochester" Anderson,Gail Patrick,Mischa Auer,Nana Bryant,John Litel,Joe Sawyer,Neil Hamilton,Herbert Rudley,Thurston Hall,
Content: The 1945 version of the Winchell SmithByron Ongley theatrical war-horse Brewster's Millions stars Dennis O'Keefe as the lucky recipient of an $8,000,000 inheritance. But there's a catch; O'Keefe will receive his legacy only if he spends $1,000,000 in two months. Prohibited from giving the money away, O'Keefe invests in several losing propositions, including a flop Broadway musical; alas, every one of his bad investments turns a profit. African-American comic actor Eddie "Rochester" Anderson co-stars as O'Keefe's valet; the bantering master-servant relationship was much too casual for several Southern cities, which banned the film on the grounds that blacks should behave more "respectfully" to whites. In the original Brewster's Millions, the hero was a stockbroker; in this 1945 version, Brewster is a returning GI. The seventh and most recent filmization of Brewster's Millions (1985) starred Richard Pryor as a washed-up baseball player. 
Wiki info: 
Brewster's Millions (1945) is one of a number of adaptations of the novel of the same name by George Barr McCutcheon. In the original Brewster's Millions, the hero was a stockbroker; in this 1945 version, Brewster is a returning GI. The seventh and most recent filmization of Brewster's Millions (1985 film) (1985) starred Richard Pryor as a washed-up baseball player.
The 1945 film was banned in Memphis, Tennessee because the character of an African-American servant, portrayed by Eddie "Rochester" Anderson, was treated too well.
Louis Forbes was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Music, Scoring of a Dramatic or Comedy Picture.
Montague L. Brewster (Dennis O'Keefe), a newly discharged U.S. soldier back from fighting in Europe during World War II, rushes home to marry his sweetheart, Peggy Gray (Helen Walker). However, he has to postpone the wedding after he learns of a strange windfall.
His deceased uncle has left him $8 million, but he can inherit the money only if he can spend a million of it before his 30th birthday, only two months away, without keeping any assets. The lawyer explains that Brewster's relative hoped it would make him so sick of spending that the rest of the fortune would not be wasted. The conditions include not telling anyone what he is doing. Brewster reluctantly agrees.
Brewster sets up his own investment company called Brewster & Company and hires his wartime buddies Hacky Smith (Joe Sawyer) and Noppy Harrison (Herbert Rudley) as vice presidents and Peggy as his private secretary. However, despite his best efforts, most of his schemes to lose money become profitable.
Worse, Peggy becomes jealous of Brewster spending a great deal of time with first socialite Barbara Drew (Gail Patrick), then showgirl Trixie Summers (June Havoc), even though he is only using them to help squander the million. Smith and Harrison (mistakingly thinking that Brewster has gone crazy due to his spending sprees, begin to toward all of his spending schemes. At the same time, Peggy breaks up with Brewster, but her wise mother (Nana Bryant) persuades her to go on a costly cruise with him and the cast of a failed play he financed after Smith and Harrison close it down.
During the cruise, Smith and Harrison stage a rebellion by confining Brewster to his quarters and ordering Brewster's chartared yacht turned around to return to New York, thinking that Brewster has lost his mind by financing this pointless cruise. When Brewster's chartered yacht is disabled by a leftover U-boat mine, he escapes from his containment and makes it to the bridge to order the captain radio for help. Brewster is ecstatic to learn that getting a tow from a passing Brazilian freighter to a nearby Florida port will cost him a huge salvage fee of over a few hundred-thousand dollars (which Brewster offers to double the amount asked by the foreign ship). He learns that this is all of the last amount of money to spend.
In the final scene, set a few days later as the deadline approaches, Brewster thinks he has met his goal, only to have his friends present him with $40,012 that they have recovered from his failed ventures. Luckily as the clock to the deadline strikes 12 noon, he is able to get rid of the money by paying the executor's fee, an old $10 debt, and the last $2 for a cab fare, just before time runs out. Having secured his inhertence of $7,000,000, Brewster then takes Peggy out saying that they have to go downtown to the nearist justice of the peace to get married right away.

