Cherry_Bomb
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 82
Director: Kyle Day
Cast: Julin Jean,Nick Manning,John Gabriel Rodriguez,Allen Hackley,Jeremy James Douglas Norton,Denise Williamson,Charlotte Biggs,Tony Bottorff,Lizabeth Waters,Alan Brady,Giovanni Antonello,D.J. Morrison,Sabrina Jones,Charissa Jarrett,Joann Fields,Nicole Hutchenson,Amanda Arnold,LeMarc Johnson,Alexandra Hutchenson,Aaron Alexander,Grayce Benesh,Mysteria Black,Salvador Perez,Andrew Henczak,Alexa Hanse,Craig Welborn,Bryan Modzelewski,Conor Nobles,Caitlyn Hutson,Debbie Day,Chad Sitzmann,Dave Buckman,Trey Huguley,Marcelo Beduschi,
Content: A sexy stripper recruits her brother to help hunt and kill the three drug dealers who sexually assaulted her in a nightclub, taking them out one-by-one until a mysterious assassin named Bull targets the sibling vigilantes for death in this violent homage to the revenge flicks of the 1980s. 
Wiki info: 
Cherry Bomb is an independent action revenge film starring Julin Jean and adult film star Nick Manning, in his first leading role in a mainstream film.
Set in 1984 in a small Texas town, Cherry Bomb follows the story of Cherry, an exotic dancer who is attacked by a group of men in the club where she works. Upon waking in the hospital, Cherry soon comes to find that all of the men have escaped justice, seemingly due to the help of corrupt local law enforcement. Against all odds, Cherry teams up with her estranged brother and vows revenge against the men who left her emotionally and physically broken. But things don't always go as planned, and Cherry finds herself up against the police, a vicious hired gun, and a barrage of unexpected consequences as she strives for vengeance.
The idea for Cherry Bomb began in late 2008 as a collaboration between writer Garrett Hargrove and director Kyle Day. Intended for independent production, the film underwent an extensive pre-production stage which involved many changes involving cast, crew, and union status, which subsequently caused several delays.
Principal photography began on March 2nd, 2010 and wrapped March 28, 2010. The majority of the film was shot on the Canon 7D, with additional footage shot on the Panasonic HVX200. All locations used were in Austin and surrounding areas.
On April 30th, 2010, the first official trailer was released on the Cherry Bomb website via YouTube and garnered overwhelmingly positive responses, largely due to social networking via the Cherry Bomb Facebook page and industry blogs such as Geek Tyrant, Dread Central, and Trailer Addict. Shot in March, 2010 in Austin, TX, the film is expected to be released late summer of 2010. Cherry Bomb will be one of the first feature-length narrative films to be shot on the Canon 7D.

