Men_in_Black_3
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 106
Director: Barry Sonnenfeld
Cast: Will Smith,Tommy Lee Jones,Josh Brolin,Jemaine Clement,Emma Thompson,Michael Stuhlbarg,Mike Colter,Nicole Scherzinger,Alice Eve,David Rasche,Keone Young,Bill Hader,Michael Chernus,Lanny Flaherty,Cayen Martin,
Content: The Men in Black are back, and this time Agent J (Will Smith) must take a trip into the past in order to save both the future and his taciturn partner Agent K (Tommy Lee Jones) in the third installment of the hit sci-fi comedy series. After 15 years of working with aliens from all across the cosmos, Agent J is sure he's seen it all. But just when he's getting the hang of the game, he learns that history has inexplicably been rewritten. In this new timeline of events, Agent K has been dead for 40 years, and Earth will soon come under attack from an extraterrestrial force with the power to claim the entire planet. Now, in order to set the past straight and head off an invasion of epic proportions, Agent J must travel back to the year 1969, when Young Agent K (Josh Brolin) was just a fresh new face on the force. But Agent J only has 24 hours to find the source of the coming catastrophe and discern how his longtime partner ties into the situation -- should he fail he'll be stuck in the past forever. Jemaine Clement, Alice Eve, and Emma Thompson co-star. 
Wiki info: 
Men in Black 3 (stylized as MIB3 and alternatively spelled Men in Black III) is a 2012 American 3D science fiction comedy film. It was released on May 25, 2012 and stars Will Smith, Tommy Lee Jones and Josh Brolin. Principal photography began in New York City on November 16, 2010, taking place ten years after its predecessor Men in Black II and fifteen years after the release of the original Men in Black. Barry Sonnenfeld and Steven Spielberg returned as director and executive producer respectively. It is the third installment in the Men in Black film series based on Lowell Cunningham's The Men in Black comic book series.
Men in Black 3 received generally positive reviews from critics and became a box office success with a worldwide gross of over $624&#160;million. It is also the highest grossing film in the series. Buoyed by the film's success, a fourth film has been confirmed.
Boris the Animal (Jemaine Clement), the last of the Boglodite race, escapes with help from his girlfriend Lily (Nicole Scherzinger), from a prison on the Moon. He returns to Earth to exact vengeance on Agent K (Tommy Lee Jones), the agent responsible for his capture and the loss of his left arm. Agent K and his partner Agent J (Will Smith) are confronted by Boris, who withdraws but warns K that he is "already dead". Sensing a personal connection between K and Boris, J asks his partner about the alien criminal, but is turned aside. At MIB headquarters, J searches for information about the two, and learns that K is responsible for the deployment of the ArcNet, a defense system that protected Earth from invasion and ultimately led to the Boglodites' extinction.
That night, K vanishes from his apartment without a trace, and J finds himself in an alternate reality in which K was killed by Boris 40 years ago. The ArcNet is not in place, and a Boglodite invasion is imminent. J learns that Boris has traveled back in time to 1969, to help his past self kill K and prevent the ArcNet's deployment. J travels back in time to July 15, 1969, one day before K's death, in order to save his partner. He soon meets the 1969 version of Agent K (Josh Brolin), who initially mistrusts J and attempts to neuralyze him until J tells him the truth. The two follow a series of clues to an alien named Griffin (Michael Stuhlbarg), who has the ability to see multiple possible futures, at Andy Warhol's studio. Boris attacks, separating J and K from Griffin, but they rendezvous at Shea Stadium. Griffin attempts to give the two agents the ArcNet, in the form of a small disc-shaped device, but is kidnapped by Boris. J and K give pursuit on high-powered monocycles and manage to recover Griffin and the ArcNet, though Boris escapes.
J, K, and Griffin travel to Cape Canaveral, Florida, where the Apollo 11 rocket is preparing to lift off and land the first humans on the Moon. J and K race to attach the ArcNet to the rocket's tip, from which it can automatically deploy once in space. However, they are stopped by the local military police, commanded by an initially disbelieving colonel. Griffin uses his abilities to persuade the colonel to take them up to the rocket, though Griffin chooses to remain behind, as he says he is "no longer needed". Both versions of Boris attack the two agents at the top of the rocket's support structure. J is ultimately able to defeat future Boris using the time travel technology; he is knocked off the structure. K shoots off the left arm of the past version of Boris, and he too falls off the structure. K places the ArcNet and he and J escape from the rocket before it launches. Future Boris is incinerated by the rocket's exhaust. When the Apollo 11 lifts off in space the ArcNet detaches and activates successfully.
Past Boris ambushes K and the colonel, killing the colonel, and is then killed by K. A young child named James approaches the scene looking for his father, the colonel. Both K, who neuralyzes and comforts the child, and J, who is hiding nearby, realize that J was the child. J also realizes that K was his surrogate father, and that contrary to his beliefs when growing up, his real father died a hero. J returns to the present day, where K is still alive, and joins him at a diner, subtly thanking the older agent for all that he has done for him. A nearby Griffin assures himself that all is well.

