Fun_Size
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 86
Director: Josh Schwartz
Cast: Victoria Justice,Jane Levy,Thomas McDonell,Thomas Mann,Chelsea Handler,Jackson Nicoll,Osric Chau,Josh Pence,Johnny Knoxville (uncredited),Thomas Middleditch,Ana Gasteyer,Kerri Kenney-Silver,Holmes Osborne,Annie Fitzpatrick,James Pumphrey,Peter Navy Tuiasosopo,Abby Elliott,Riki Lindhome,
Content: A high-school senior loses her little brother while trick-or-treating, and recruits three of her classmates to help bring him back home before her mother finds out in this teen comedy from first-time director Josh Schwartz (executive producer of TV's Chuck and Gossip Girl). Sardonic Wren (Victoria Justice) hails from an unusually dysfunctional family. She can't wait until she escapes to college and leaves them all behind, but in the meantime, an invitation to the biggest Halloween party in the area at least offers her an excuse to get out of the house for a night. But when Wren is placed on babysitting duty so her mother can dash out and party with her handsome young boy toy, the dejected teen reluctantly takes her little brother Albert out for a night of trick-or-treating. Later, when Albert vanishes into a sea of costumed kids, his panicked sister enlists the help of her best friend April, wannabe womanizer Peng, and his charmingly geeky pal Roosevelt to track down her missing brother, and get him safely back home while their mother remains none the wiser. Meanwhile, over the course of one wild and unpredictable Halloween night, the group's frantic search lands them in some pretty outlandish situations, and provides Roosevelt with the perfect opportunity to impress his longtime crush Wren. 
Wiki info: 
Fun Size is a 2012 American teen comedy film written by Max Werner and directed by Josh Schwartz. It stars Victoria Justice, Jane Levy, Thomas McDonell, Thomas Mann, and Chelsea Handler. It was produced by Nickelodeon Movies, Anonymous Content, and Fake Empire Productions and distributed by Paramount Pictures. It was the second time a Nickelodeon film received a PG-13 rating, since Angus, Thongs and Perfect Snogging, which was released straight-to-DVD in the US. However, it is the studio's first American and theatrically released film with that rating.
In Cleveland, Ohio, Wren DeSantis (Victoria Justice) and her friend April (Jane Levy) are invited to a Halloween party by her crush, Aaron Riley (Thomas McDonell), but she is also ordered by her widowed mother, Joy (Chelsea Handler) to take her oddball brother Albert with her when he goes out trick-or-treating on Halloween. When she loses him in a haunted house, she must find him before her mother finds out.

