Girl_in_Progress
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 90
Director: Patricia Riggen
Cast: Eva Mendes,Russell Peters,Cierra Ramirez,Patricia Arquette,Matthew Modine,Brenna O'Brien,Landon Liboiron,Raini Rodriguez,Eugenio Derbez,
Content: A teen with an absentee single mother attempts to accelerate her transition into adulthood with the help of her best friend, and she learns some important lessons about growing up in the process. Ansiedad (Cierra Ramirez) doesn't have a father, and her mother Grace (Eva Mendes) is hardly an inspirational role model. Insulting, inconsiderate, and often too busy with work or men to give her daughter any real attention, Grace is in the midst of an affair with a married doctor (Matthew Modine) when her handsome co-worker (Eugenio Derbez) tries to sweep her off her feet. Meanwhile, Ansiedad begins to grasp the concept of the archetypal "coming-of-age" story in English class with the help of her concerned teacher, Ms. Armstrong (Patricia Arquette), and decides that it's high time she left adolescence behind. Together with her best friend Tavita (Raini Rodriguez), Ansiedad hatches a plan to speed up her development, even if it means willingly sacrificing some of her own innocence along the way. Little does Ansiedad realize that growing up isn't just about getting older, but getting wiser as well. 
Wiki info: 
Girl in Progress is a 2012 American drama film directed by Patricia Riggen. The film received a limited release on May 11, 2012. Originally, the film was scheduled for release on April 27, 2012, but was postponed until May 11, 2012 to avoid competition with The Pirates! Band of Misfits. The film received the Favorite Movie Award at the 2012 ALMA Awards, which honors the accomplishments made by Hispanics in film, television, and music. Cierra Ramirez won the Favorite Movie Actress Supporting Role Award.
Grace (Eva Mendes) is a single mom raising her fourteen-year-old daughter, Ansiedad (Cierra Ramirez), alone. Grace is too busy juggling work, bills, and her relationship with the very married Dr. Hartford (Matthew Modine) to give Ansiedad the attention she desperately needs.
When Ansiedad's English teacher (Patricia Arquette) inspires Ansiedad with coming-of-age lessons, Ansiedad decides it's time to rebel and grow up quickly so she will finally be mature enough to move out. She creates a list of tasks she must complete to reach her big goal: run away to New York.
Her first task is to befriend the most popular and hard-to-get girl in school, Valerie (Brenna O'Brien). Ansiedad successfully completes this first task, but is forced to act terrible toward her best friend, Tavita (Raini Rodriguez) to make this happen. Tavita begins to cry from Ansiedad's harsh comments about her weight and runs off to her boyfriend, Ferguson (Rady Panov).
At school, Ansiedad witnesses Ferguson breaking up with Tavita harshly, and tells Ferguson to leave Tavita alone. Ferguson storms away angrily and Tavita tells Ansiedad sadly that she was never there, and that she hates Ansiedad. Ansiedad is very upset, but moves onto her next task: have her first kiss, preferably with the boyish popular so-called womanizer Trevor (Landon Liboiron).
To target Trevor, she hides out in his car, surprising him and he gets in. She asks if he'll be at the party that night, to which he answers yes. She then asks him (knocking off her next task) to take her virginity there. He agrees, and they kiss awkwardly, after Ansiedad asks him to.
At the party that night, Valerie ditches Ansiedad and Ansiedad spots Trevor. Wordlessly, Trevor takes her to an upstairs bedroom, much to Valerie's anger. After locking the door, they kiss, and Ansiedad asks Trevor to go in the bathroom and put on a condom while she gets ready. He enters the bathroom and unwraps the condom, accidentally flinging it onto a lightbulb and burning a hole in it. Meanwhile, Ansiedad strips to her thong and bra and slips into the bed. She slips out of the thong under the blankets and starts to dispose of her bra when she stops and realizes how scared she is. As Trevor walks out, naked behind the door except for the condom, Ansiedad changes her mind and puts her bra and underwear back on. Trevor asks where she's going as she bundles up her clothes and runs out, clad only in her undergarments. Trevor wraps a towel around his waist and runs after her. As Ansiedad descends the stairs, Valerie stops her and calls her a slut, asking her how many guys she'd had sex with at such a young age. The party guests begin dumping water on her and asking her about her and Trevor's sex as she tries to convince them that they didn't have sex. But nobody believes her as she is dressed only in a seducive bra and tiny thong, and Trevor is naked under the thin towel. Ansiedad runs home, screaming for her mother and yelling how stupid she was as she cries. She finds her mother is not home, as she fell asleep at her co-worker's (who is in love with Grace) after getting drunk with him. She trashes the house in anger and cries until the next morning.
The next morning, Grace awakens at her co-worker Mission Impossible(Eugenio Derbez)'s, with him gone. She hurries to the crab shack where she works and finds that someone has robbed all of the family-owned business's money, which means they will be closing down.
Grace finds Mission Impossible in the back of the restaurant and demands if he stole the money. He pleads with her, saying he did it so Grace could pay Ansiedad's tuition. Grace yells at him and tells him what an idiot he is, and he then promises to return the money to the hotel owner.
Ansiedad, heartbroken, boards a bus to New York, only to be stopped by her mother. Grace tells Ansiedad that Tavita had gone missing as well, and how sorry she is. Grace learns that Tavita has been found in a terrible, almost fatal, condition. Ansiedad and Grace fight but Grace stops Ansiedad by saying "I don't want what happened to your friend to happen to you." Ansiedad asks what happened, and Grace says that Tavita took weight pills and almost died.
After a long chase, Grace catches Ansiedad, and they make up. Ansiedad apologizes to Tavita, who has recovered, and the movie ends happily.

