LOL
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 100
Director: Lisa Azuelos
Cast: Miley Cyrus,Demi Moore,Douglas Booth,Ashley Greene,Adam Sevani,Thomas Jane,Jay Hernandez,Marlo Thomas,Nora Dunn,Gina Gershon,Fisher Stevens,George Finn,Lina Esco,Ashley Hinshaw,Tanz Watson,Austin Nichols,Jean-Luc Bilodeau,
Content: Seventeen-year-old Lola (Miley Cyrus) rebounds from a recent break-up by attempting to seduce her ex-boyfriend's best friend, as well as experimenting with drugs and sex, while her clueless mother (Demi Moore) reels in the wake of a recent divorce. 
Wiki info: 
LOL is a 2012 American coming of age comedy-drama-romance film directed by Lisa Azuelos, written by Azuelos and Kamir Aïnouz. The film is a remake of the 2008 French film LOL (Laughing Out Loud). It stars Miley Cyrus, Demi Moore, Ashley Greene and Adam Sevani. It was filmed in 2010 but released by Lionsgate two years later, in the United States on May 4, 2012, as a limited release in 105 theaters without promotion. Before its release in the US, LOL was released in India and Singapore. The film was only released in 24 countries. LOL grossed approximately $10 million worldwide on a budget of $11 million.
In a world connected by Facebook and other social networks, Lola Williams and her friends navigate the peer pressures of high school romance and friendship while dodging their sometimes overbearing and confused parents.
Lola (Miley Cyrus) leads an ordinary life, with her boyfriend Chad (George Finn), and best friends Emily (Ashley Hinshaw), Janice (Lina Esco) and Kyle (Douglas Booth). When they return to school, Lola discovers that Chad has cheated on her over the summer, so the two break up. Lola and Kyle begin to realize that they have feelings for each other and pursue a relationship, but this is complicated due to the fact that Chad and Kyle are friends, and Lola's "frenemy" Ashley (Ashley Greene) wants to date Kyle. Kyle and his band want to compete in the battle of the bands, but Kyle's dad doesn't support Kyle's passion for music and feels that it is getting in the way of his schoolwork. During the movie, Lola records all of these events in her diary.
Lola's mom, Anne (Demi Moore), is a divorcée who frequently has sex with her ex-husband, Allen (Thomas Jane) until she finds out that Allen has been sleeping with another woman at the same time. Anne also begins to realize that she and Lola are growing further apart once Lola throws a party and is caught by Anne, who threatens to not allow Lola to go on her class trip to Paris. Things finally start to change when Anne meets police officer James (Jay Hernandez) and they begin to date. During their relationship, James offers Anne advice on how to reconnect with Lola.
After a presentation at school, Lola looks for Kyle in the bathroom, and overhears two people having sex in the stall. Lola assumes it is Kyle and Ashley after seeing a purse similar to Ashley's peeking out from under the stall. Lola confronts Ashley who does not deny it. A huge fight breaks out between Kyle and Lola, where Lola accuses Kyle of cheating on her, and the two break up. After the break up, Lola is determined to make Kyle jealous, and tries to do so by making out with her childhood friend Jeremy (Jean-Luc Bilodeau). Meanwhile, Lola and Anne reconnect, and Anne allows Lola to go on the class trip to Paris.
Before the Paris trip, Emily finally admits to Lola it was actually her and her secret boyfriend Wen (Adam Sevani) in the bathroom, not Ashley and Kyle. After this realization, Lola and Kyle get back together and Lola spends the night with Kyle where he is staying. When they all get home, Lola sticks up for Ashley when Chad calls her a hoe. Ashley thanks her for this and it seems they could be friends again in the future. Meanwhile, Anne finds Lola's diary and finds out that Lola has slept with Kyle and done drugs. She confronts Lola, and the two of them have a huge falling-out, causing Lola to move in with her dad. Eventually, Lola and Anne reconcile and she moves back in with her. Kyle's band wins battle of the bands with his father's support. Kyle and Lola stay together and Ashley and Chad begin to date. The film ends with Anne and Lola laughing out loud while cuddling.

