Girl_Walks_Into_a_Bar
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 80
Director: Sebastian Gutierrez
Cast: Carla Gugino,Emmanuelle Chriqui,Josh Hartnett,Danny DeVito,Rosario Dawson,Zachary Quinto,Robert Forster,Aaron Tveit,Amber Valletta,Gil Bellows,Kevin Zegers,Alexis Bledel,Michelle Ryan,Xander Berkeley,Lauren Lee Smith,
Content: Sebastian Gutierrez wrote and directed this comedy-drama set in a handful of Los Angeles drinking establishments over the course of one lively evening. Francine (Carla Gugino) meets Nick (Zachary Quinto) in a cocktail lounge and they discuss some business -- it seems Nick isn't happy in his marriage, and he's willing to pay someone to kill his wife. However, Nick doesn't know that Francine isn't a hit woman, but a private detective hired to dig up dirt on him. Francine would seem to have all the incriminating information she needs, but before leaving she discovers her recordings of the conversation have been stolen. Francine spends the rest of the night traveling from one bar to another trying to find the thief, and she crosses paths with an remarkable variety of characters, including Dodge (Robert Forster), a nostalgic former gangster; Teresa (Emmanuelle Chriqui), an exotic dancer who can read men's minds, Aldo (Danny DeVito), a shifty and well-connected card shark, and June (Rosario Dawson), who runs the area's only clothing-optional ping pong parlor. Director Gutierrez says Girl Walks Into A Bar was the first feature film produced specifically to be streamed online, and it was posted on YouTube simultaneously with its premiere at the 2011 South by Southwest Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
Girl Walks into a Bar is a 2011 multiple story line ensemble comedy film produced exclusively for Internet distribution. It is directed by Sebastián Gutiérrez from his own script, much like the anthology style of Gutiérrez's Women in Trouble, and follows a group of apparent strangers in interlocking stories taking place in ten different bars during the course of one evening throughout Los Angeles.
Girl Walks into a Bar premiered at The ArcLight Hollywood Cinemas on March 7, 2011, in Los Angeles and screened as an official selection of the Spotlight Premieres section at the South by Southwest Film Conference and Festival 2011 in Austin. The film is currently available in the United States to watch for free exclusively on YouTube with sponsorship from Lexus.
An undercover ex-cop named Francine Driver (Carla Gugino), who poses as an assassin, meets a dentist – Nick (Zachary Quinto) – in a Los Angeles bar. Nick wants his wife Karen (Lauren Lee Smith) dead. He does not have the upfront payment of $20,000, but he promises he can get it for her before the night is over. When he leaves, Francine meets a young man named Henry (Aaron Tveit), a photographer who charms her before stealing her wallet and running off into the night. Her wallet contains the device used to record her conversation with Nick, and the evidence is incriminating.
This begins Francine's frantic search through the bars and clubs of Los Angeles. As she journeys, a number of characters are introduced. There is Henry's sister, Teresa (Emmanuelle Chriqui), an exotic dancer. There is Teresa and Henry's father, Dodge (Robert Forster), an ex-con who gives his son the most baffling of advice and has a strange fixation on bones. There is Nick's patient, Aldo (Danny DeVito), a gangster who can get Nick his money ... but only by roping him into participating in a heist. There is a bartender named Camilla (Amber Valletta), who is having relationship problems with her divorced upstairs neighbor. There is June (Rosario Dawson), a hatcheck girl for an exclusive nude ping pong club. There is Francine's superior, Sam Salazar (Josh Hartnett), who is always addressed as Officer but is actually a detective. Then there is Francine's ex-husband, Emmit (Gil Bellows), who has something Francine wants.

