Thunderstruck
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 0
Director: John Whitesell
Cast: Taylor Gray,Kevin Durant,James Belushi,Brandon T. Jackson,Doc Shaw,Tristin Mays,Candace Parker,Robert Belushi,Spencer Daniels,William Ragsdale,Hana Hayes,Andrea Frankle,Beau Brasseaux,Glen Warner,Brie Lybrand,George Wilson,Sean Michael Cunningham,Lorrie Chilcoat,Nicole Barré,
Content: A teenage basketball fan inadvertently steals his NBA idol's talent in this sports comedy for the entire family. Brian loves basketball. He can't make a free shot to save his life, but he dreams of the day when he'll learn to dunk like basketball superstar Kevin Durant. Then, one night at an NBA game, Brian is called down to the boards to make a half-court shot, and something magical happens. The moment Kevin hands Brian the ball, his dazzling skills are transferred to the bumbling young fan. Now Brian can play ball like pro, and Kevin can barely dribble. With the championship game fast approaching and Kevin's career on the line, young Brian must figure out a way to get his sports hero back in the action, even if it means giving up the ability to outplay everyone on the court. 
Wiki info: 
Thunderstruck is a 2012 children's film starring NBA player for the Oklahoma City Thunder Kevin Durant, along with Taylor Gray, Jim Belushi, Brandon T. Jackson, and Doc Shaw, and directed by John Whitesell. It was released on August 24, 2012.
Brian is a 16 year old boy that lives in Oklahoma. He is mad about basketball. In his freshman year of high schol he tried out for the team and is now the assistant of the team. He always aspires to play like his hero Kevin Durant. When practicing basketball on his driveway his sister comes out to film him. He ends up hurting himself and the sister later gave the video to connor, the star player of the basketball team. When he got to school he saw a new girl Isabella who he immediatly likes. Connor shows the tape of Brian practicing to the whole school during lunchtime and when his father comes home, hearing that he has has a rough day, decided to take him to a thunder game. The Thunder are playing the Detroit Pistons on there home court in Oklahoma City, the Cheappeake center. At half time Brian gets chosen to shoot a half court shot which he misses and hits the mascot in the process. Later on, he gets a chance to meet Durant and expresses his desire to play just like him. Durant signs the special addition Oklahoma City Thunder ball that Brian got to shoot the halfcourt shot with brian says "I wish I had your talent" and Durant replies "I wish I could give it to you man, but listen, hard work beates talent when talent fails to work Hard" then there is a surge of energy that goes through the ball. In the morning you here on the radio that the thunder lost and kevin durant went 0-17 shooting in the 2nd half. In the morning he learns that connor, who was at the game recorded him missing the halfcourt shot and posted it online. Later that noght he goes out to a carnival and after connor fails to hit shots to win a prize for the new girl, Isabella. He laughs and connor gives him the ball, saying "You try and do better". Brian then makes the shot and wins a prize which he gives it to Isabella. Durant then goes to practise the next morning and his agent thinks he is unhappy about something but he simply say he is in a slump. When Brian goes out to shoot the next morning he is making shots unlike he usually does and even discovers he can dunk. Brian then goes to re try out for the basketball team and after seeing him play they let him on the team. He then films himself and dunkingover the hood of a car. Durant's agent meats with a female basketball plyer comes to meet with durants agent and is angry becuase she was branded as the female Kevin Durant however this marketing campaign is no longer good now that durant is in a slump. In Brians first game connor refuses to pass him the ball until he is told to by his coach and Brian immediatly becomes a star. The NBA TNT Board then talks about Durant and Charles Barkley says "Durant is playing like a Mechanic". When Durant Goes to practice his mum comes and dresses like a chearleader to cheer him on. Brian meets the new girl Issabella at the Go Kart track and races her. Durant then goes to film a Commerical about his new Shoes the KD IV and can not film it as he can no longer do the nesscecary skills. Kevin Durant's agent discovers Brian and realises what has happened. He meats Brian in a paring lot on a date with Issabella but he is told to go away as he wants to hang out with Issabella. He gets Durant to come to Brian's school hoping to stop the switch and it does not work. He then Confronts Brian about it at a party and Brian does not believe him. At a pep rally Isabella says that she cannot go out with him as he is too focused on basketball. Brian then sees a poster of Kevin Durant and decided to try and switch it back. It does not work and Durant decided that he would have to start over. After having to show Issabella and realises that he has to hit the mascot with the ball first. Then when he goes to the ground he hits the mascot and they repeat the original encounter except oppisite and Kevin Durant gets his talent back. Durant gets back to full form and the Thunder make the playoffs. Then at the game to make the playoffs for the eagles (Brians Team) although he does not have the talent he still manages to lead his team to a close game and make the final shot to put them up by 1, this means that they make the state playoffs for the first time in 32 years. Then you see brian practising with Kevin Durant and you can see him getting better before the movie cuts to credits.

