This_Is_40
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 134
Director: Judd Apatow
Cast: Paul Rudd,Leslie Mann,Maude Apatow,Iris Apatow,Jason Segel,Charlyne Yi,Tim Bagley,Melissa McCarthy,Megan Fox,Albert Brooks,John Lithgow,Ryan Lee,Lena Dunham,Chris O'Dowd,Rob Smigel,Annie Mumolo,Joanne Baron,Billie Joe Armstrong,Graham Parker,Tom Freund,Bob Andrews,Brinsley Schwarz,Martin Belmont,Andrew Bodnar,Stephen Goulding,
Content: Judd Apatow's This Is 40 stars Paul Rudd and Leslie Mann star as Pete and Debbie, the same married couple they played in Apatow's Knocked Up. As the movie opens, Debbie is turning 40 but tells everybody she's younger. She runs a small, boutique clothing store that's breaking even financially, while Pete manages a retro-minded indie-music label that's under serious financial strain just as they are trying to launch a new album by Graham Parker. Their money troubles are compounded by Pete's dad Larry (Albert Brooks), who continually hits up his son for cash because he has toddler triplets after an overly successful fertilization treatment with his younger second wife. Debbie has daddy issues as well. Her father (John Lithgow), an emotionally cold, highly successful surgeon, seems to want no part of his daughter's life, even though they meet for lunch occasionally after not talking to each other for a lengthy period of time. All of these people, along with Debbie's trainer, Pete's employees, and salesgirls from Debbie's boutique, arrive at the couple's beautiful home for a birthday party where all the familial wounds are opened. 
Wiki info: 
This Is 40 is a 2012 American spin-off comedy film written, co-produced and directed by Judd Apatow. It is a stand-alone sequel to the 2007 film Knocked Up and stars Paul Rudd and Leslie Mann. Filming was conducted in mid-2011, and the film was released in North America on December 21, 2012. The film follows the lives of middle-aged married couple Pete and Debbie as they each turn 40, with their jobs and daughters adding stress to their relationship.
This Is 40 received generally mixed reviews from critics who praised its acting, and cast, as well as the film's very comedic moments and perceptive scenes, but criticized the film's overlong running time and occasional aimlessness.
The film begins with couple Debbie (Leslie Mann) and Pete (Paul Rudd), first seen in Knocked Up; they are having sex on Debbie's 40th birthday. Pete reveals that he took a Viagra given to him by his friend Barry (Rob Smigel); this enrages Debbie and they stop. Debbie is angered that she is turning 40.
After five years, Debbie owns a boutique with Desi (Megan Fox) and Jodi (Charlyne Yi) working for her. Pete owns his own record label, with his friends Ronnie (Chris O'Dowd) and Cat (Lena Dunham) working with him. Pete's business is struggling financially. The couple also are having to deal with their daughters Sadie, a young teenager, and eight-year-old Charlotte. For Debbie's birthday, the couple goes on a romantic weekend to a resort. There they get high off of "special cookies", and fantasize out loud about ways they would kill each other.
After speaking with her friends Jason (Jason Segel) and Barb (Annie Mumolo), Debbie decides to improve her marriage and family through exercise, and becoming more connected with their parents. Debbie tells Pete that he needs to stop lending his dad, Larry (Albert Brooks), money, because it is hurting them financially. Pete goes to visit him, but is unsuccessful at giving him the news, and still agrees to give him money. Meanwhile, Debbie visits her gynecologist (Tim Bagley), and discovers that she is pregnant. She decides not to tell Pete about this. Later, she yells at a student, Joseph (Ryan Lee), who has been taunting Sadie. She yells at him so much that his mother, Catherine (Melissa McCarthy), gets into an argument with Pete. They later have a meeting with the principal, but the couple denies everything that happened. The couple is overjoyed when Catherine starts using the same language they used previously and the principal dismisses them.
One night between the school taunting sequences, Debbie takes Desi out dancing at a club, planning to confront her with her suspicions that she has been stealing money from the store. Debbie and Desi meet several players from the Philadelphia Flyers hockey team at the club. Debbie awkwardly finds out that one of the players wants to hang out with her and possibly sleep with her. She is proud that he wants to have sex with her, but admits that she is married, has two kids, and is pregnant. Afterwards, Debbie drops Desi off at her house, and confronts her about the money, saying she's been taking money to buy drugs. Desi reveals she is able to afford nice things because she is also an escort. Later, Debbie meets up with Jodi, who confesses that she stole the money to buy Oxycontin. Debbie fires her and leaves. Meanwhile, Pete and Debbie are having to deal with Sadie and Charlotte fighting all the time, which results in arguments between the family.
On Pete's 40th birthday party, he argues with his dad about the money he wants from them. Debbie argues with her dad about not spending too much time in her life, and how his is perfect. Oliver then explains that his life is not perfect, and how he has always cared about her and loved her. Later, Pete overhears Debbie talking about her pregnancy, and rides out of the house on his bicycle in anger. Debbie and Larry then go after Pete, trying to find him. Soon, they find that he wrecked after hitting his head on a car door. Pete then gets into an argument with the driver of the car who then punches him in the belly. Debbie and Larry take Pete to the hospital, where Larry apologizes for everything, and Debbie forgives him. Debbie and Pete talk later and Pete explains that he is actually thrilled about having a third baby, and that he doesn't feel trapped, so the two reconcile. Sometime later, Pete and Debbie are watching a small concert with Ryan Adams performing. Debbie then suggests that Pete should sign him to his label and plan to talk to him as they finish watching the show.

