30_Beats
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 0
Director: Alexis Lloyd
Cast: 
Content: As a sweltering heat wave descends on New York City, ten unrelated people find their fates becoming deeply intertwined though a series of intense sexual encounters in this urban drama inspired by Arthur Schnitzler's La Ronde. 
Wiki info: 
30 Beats is a 2012 comedy romance film, written and directed by Alexis Lloyd and starring Ingeborga Dapkunaite, Jason Day and Vahina Giocante. Acquired by Roadside Attractions in Feb 2012, the film also stars Paz de la Huerta and Lee Pace. Distributor Roadside Attractions released the film theatrically and on Video on demand on June 1, 2012.
The plot is set in New York City over three days in the lives of 10 different characters who interact with each other in various sexual encounters which follows from one character to the next.
It begins when a young woman, named Julie (Condola Rashad), meets at a loft with her former anthropology professor, named Adam (Justin Kirk), where she tells him that she is a virgin and wants him to take her viginity.
Afterwords, the plot shifts to Adam who visits a tarrot reader, named Erika (Jennifer Tilly), for advice on his sexual prowless and superstitions. She performs a ritual on him to "clense" Adam of his sexual needs.
Erika then meets with Diego (Jason Day), a much younger bicycle messenger whom she meets for weekly sexual trysts in a Harlem apartment where Diego confides in her that he is in love with another woman and Erika gives him advice on how to court her.
Diego then goes to the house of Laura (Paz de la Huerta), the woman he has a fixation on, where she invites him in, but tells him that she cannot have sex for she has a bad heart and had surgery where she spouts a large scar on her chest. Diego tells her to accept her physical deformity as it is to feel accepted.
Laura then goes to her chiropractor, named Matt (Lee Pace) where she dresses up in revealing underwear and tries to seduce him, who at first refuses her advances, but gives into them.
The next day, Matt visits Kim (Vahina Giocante), a young Frenchwoman he is dating, whom reveals to him all about her own sexual active life with other men and women and of her comfortness with it.
Kim works as a switchboard operator in a local answering service where a regular caller, named Julian (Thomas Sadoski), wants to meet with her for lunch the following day. Unsure of the man he is, Kim has her lesbian girlfriend meet with him at a local cafe where she becomes uncomfortable of the way Julian hits it off with the other woman, in which she reveals herself. Julian understands Kim being unsure and they end up spending the night together in a threesome with Kim's girlfriend.
Julian is revealed to be a speechwriter who visits a call-girl, named Alice (Ingeborga Dapkunaite), on a weekly basis where she practices bondage acts on him. Alice tells Julien that she is considering giving up her call-girl profession to open her own art gallery and cannot see him anymore. Julian tries to persuade Alice not to give up on what she does best, but her mind is made up, and she walks out to spend alone time in her new artist studio.
Alice goes to a health spa where she meets and has a sexual encounter with a younger man, named Shawn (Ben Levin), in the steam room. But afterwords, Shawn is rushed to the hospital after he slips and hits his head, and cannot remember the sexual encouter due to short-term memory loss. Alice accompanies him to the hospital to tell Shawn that their encounter did happen.
After Shawn leaves the hospital, the events come full circle when he meets with his childhood friend, whom happens to be Julie. She tells Shawn that she wants to have sex with him, despite Shawn disaproving at the awkwardness of it all. When Julie tells Shawn that she is no longer a virgin, he decides to give their relationship a try by sleeping together which they do.

