Price_Check
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 92
Director: Michael Walker
Cast: Parker Posey,Eric Mabius,Annie Parisse,Josh Pais,Edward Herrmann,Remy Auberjonois,Jayce Bartok,Samrat Chakrabarti,Cheyenne Jackson,Stephen Kunken,Amy Schumer,Matt Servitto,Mackenzie Smith,
Content: A family man working for a sinking supermarket chain enters into an affair with his sexy and spirited new boss, whose efforts to turn him into a high-powered executive mean less time spent with his wife and son in this comedy from writerdirector Michael Walker (Chasing Sleep). Pete (Eric Mabius) used to work in the music industry. But after that career fell through, he somehow wound up in the pricing department of a grocery-store chain that's about to go under. Much to Pete's surprise, things start to look up when he gets a new boss named Susan (Parker Posey) whose infectious enthusiasm and unorthodox approach give the struggling business a much-needed boost. Meanwhile, Susan sees great potential in Pete, and begins focusing her energy on transforming him into a key player for the company. The more time Susan and Pete spend together, however, the further the once-happy husband and father drifts away from his wife and son. 
Wiki info: 
Price Check is a 2012 comedy film about the high price of a middle-class life. The film was written and directed by Michael Walker, and stars Parker Posey and Remy Auberjonois.
Pete Cozy (Eric Mabius) has found himself a house in the suburbs and a job in the pricing department of a middling supermarket chain. Pete's job allows him to spend quality time with his wife (Annie Parisse) and young son and, despite the fact that they are drowning in debts, they appear happy.
Everything changes when Pete gets a new boss, the beautiful, high-powered, fast talking Susan Felders (Parker Posey). With Susan's influence, Pete finds himself on the executive track, something that both surprises and excites him. The more his salary increases, the more he has to perform at work… and the less time he gets to spend with his family. At the same time, his relationship with his boss begins to cross the line of professional etiquette. Both become enamored with one another – creating tension in the workplace and in his personal home life.

