Killing_Them_Softly
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 98
Director: Andrew Dominik
Cast: Brad Pitt,Scoot McNairy,Ben Mendelsohn,Richard Jenkins,James Gandolfini,Ray Liotta,Sam Shepard,Slaine,Vincent Curatola,Max Casella,Trevor Long,
Content: A professional enforcer investigates the brazen robbery of a high-stakes mob poker game in this crime thriller directed by Andrew Dominik (The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford) and adapted from a novel by George V. Higgins. Livid over the fact that three low-level thieves have crashed the entire underworld economy, the mob's top brass hires Jackie Cogan (Brad Pitt) to see that the bandits pay for their crime. The closer Cogan gets to his target, however, the more he finds his mission complicated by an alcoholic hit man who's well past his prime, incompetent gangsters, and the playboy host of the inauspicious game. James Gandolfini, Ray Liotta, Ben Mendelsohn, Richard Jenkins, and Scoot McNairy co-star. 
Wiki info: 
Killing Them Softly is a 2012 American neo-noir crime film directed by Andrew Dominik and starring Brad Pitt, based on the 1974 novel Cogan's Trade by George V. Higgins. On May 22, 2012, the film premiered in competition for the Palme d'Or at the 2012 Cannes Film Festival, receiving positive early reviews.
In the past, Markie Trattman (Ray Liotta), the proprietor of a criminal poker ring operating in an unspecified New Orleans neighborhood, decides to orchestrate an inside job by paying two men to rob his poker room. He holds up under questioning by the hitman Dillon, although he later openly admits his involvement to various criminal figures; he suffers no retaliation. In the fall of 2008, amidst the American financial crisis, a man named Johnny "Squirrel" Amato (Vincent Curatola) plans to rob Markie's next poker game, anticipating the mafia will blame Markie for the heist. He enlists Frankie (Scoot McNairy), a naïve, former business associate with a boy's voice, and Russell (Ben Mendelsohn), an unstable heroin addict who is stealing purebred dogs for money, to perform the robbery. Upon completing the crime, Russell travels to Florida to sell the purebred dogs.
Driver (Richard Jenkins), an emissary for the mafia, converses with a hitman named Jackie Cogan (Brad Pitt). Although Jackie understands Markie was uninvolved in the aforementioned heist, he believes Markie should be murdered in order to restore the mobsters' confidence in the local gambling scene. While in Florida, Russell inadvertently informs a man named Kenny Gill (Slaine) of his involvement in the heist while trying to recruit him as a dealer. Kenny informs Jackie, who implicates Russell, Frankie, and Squirrel as the true perpetrators. Jackie brings in Mickey Fallon (James Gandolfini), a hitman from New York, to kill Squirrel, as Squirrel is acquainted with Jackie. Jackie kills Markie in a drive-by shooting. Jackie later becomes frustrated with Mickey's flagrant lechery and alcoholism, and convinces Driver to arrange Mickey's arrest before the job has been completed.
Russell is arrested on a drug possession charge; meanwhile, Jackie confronts Frankie and convinces him to trade Squirrel's whereabouts for his life. Jackie murders Squirrel before murdering Frankie; he then meets with Driver to collect his fee on the night of the American presidential election. Driver refuses to pay Jackie in full, and Jackie demands his payment as the film ends.

