Wuthering Heights is a novel by Emily Brontë, written between October 1845 and June 1846, and published in 1847 under the pseudonym "Ellis Bell." It was her first and only published novel: she died aged 30 the following year. The decision to publish came after the success of her sister Charlotte's novel, Jane Eyre. After Emily's death, Charlotte edited the manuscript of Wuthering Heights, and arranged for the edited version to be published as a posthumous second edition in 1850.
Wuthering Heights is the eponymous farmhouse on the Yorkshire moors where the story unfolds. Its core theme is the enduring love between the heroine, Catherine Earnshaw, and her father's adopted son, Heathcliff and how it eventually destroys their lives and the lives of those around them.
Although Wuthering Heights is now widely regarded as a classic of English literature, it received mixed reviews when first published, and was considered controversial because its depiction of mental and physical cruelty was so unusually stark. In the second half of the 19th century, Charlotte Brontë's Jane Eyre was considered the best of the Brontë sisters' works, but later critics argued that Wuthering Heights was superior. Wuthering Heights has inspired adaptations, including film, radio and television dramatisations, a musical by Bernard J. Taylor, a ballet, operas (by Bernard Herrmann, Carlisle Floyd, and Frédéric Chaslin), a role-playing game, and the 1978 chart-topping song by Kate Bush.
In 1801, Mr Lockwood, a wealthy man from the south of England, rented Thrushcross Grange in the north for peace and recuperation. He visited his landlord, Mr Heathcliff, who lives in a remote moorland farmhouse, "Wuthering Heights" where he finds an odd assemblage: Mr Heathcliff seems to be a gentleman, but his manners are uncouth; the reserved mistress of the house is in her mid-teens; and a young man who seems to be a family member yet dresses and speaks like a servant.
Snowed in, Lockwood is grudgingly allowed to stay and is shown to a chamber where he notices books and graffiti left by a former inhabitant, Catherine. He falls asleep and has a nightmare in which he sees the ghostly Catherine trying to enter through the window. He cries out in fear rousing Mr Heathcliff who rushes to the room. Lockwood was convinced that what he saw was real. Mr Heathcliff, believing Lockwood to be right, examines the window and opens it hoping to allow Catherine's spirit to enter. When nothing happens, Mr Heathcliff shows Lockwood to his own bedroom and returned to keep watch at the window.
At sun rise, Mr Heathcliff escorts Lockwood back to Thrushcross Grange. Lockwood asks the housekeeper, Nelly Dean, about the family at Wuthering Heights.
Thirty years earlier, Wuthering Heights was occupied by Mr Earnshaw, his teenage son Hindley, and daughter Catherine. On a trip to Liverpool, Earnshaw encountered a homeless boy, "dark-skinned gypsy in aspect". He adopted the boy and named him Heathcliff. Hindley felt Heathcliff supplanted him in his father's affections and became bitterly jealous. Catherine and Heathcliff became friends and spent hours playing on the moors. They grew attached and hated every moment they were apart.
As a result of the sibling rivalry, Hindley was sent to college. Three years later Earnshaw died and Hindley became the master of Wuthering Heights. He returned to live there with his new wife, Frances. He allowed Heathcliff to stay, but only as a servant.
A few months after Hindley's return, Heathcliff and Catherine walked to Thrushcross Grange to spy on the Lintons who lived there. On being discovered, they tried to run away, but were caught. Catherine was injured by the Lintons' dog and taken into the house to have her injuries tended, and Heathcliff was sent home. Catherine stayed with the Lintons and was influenced by their fine appearance and genteel manners. When she returned to Wuthering Heights, her appearance and manners were more ladylike and she laughed at Heathcliff's unkempt appearance. The next day, knowing the Lintons would visit, Heathcliff tried to dress up in an effort to impress Catherine but he and Edgar Linton get into an argument and Hindley humiliated him by locking him in the attic. Catherine tried to comfort him, but he vowed revenge on Hindley.
The following year, Frances gave birth to a son, Hareton and a few months later died and Hindley descended into drunkenness. Two years pass and Catherine and Edgar Linton became friends and she was more distant toward Heathcliff. While Hindley was away, Edgar visited Catherine who had argued with Nelly. Edgar, drawn into the argument starts to leave, but Catherine stopped him. Before long, they declared themselves lovers.
Catherine confessed to Nelly that Edgar proposed and she accepted even though she did not love him, she loved Heathcliff but could not marry him because of his low birth and lack of education. She hoped to use her position as Edgar's wife to raise Heathcliff's standing. Heathcliff overheard and in despair ran away and disappeared without trace. Three years later, Edgar and Catherine marry and live at Thruscross Grange.
Six months later, Heathcliff returned, a gentleman. Catherine was delighted; Edgar not so keen. Edgar's sister, Isabella fell in love with Heathcliff who despised her, but encouraged the infatuation as a chance for revenge on Edgar. One day, he embraced Isabella which led to an argument with Edgar. Catherine, upset, locked herself in her room.
Heathcliff took up residence at Wuthering Heights and spent his time gambling with Hindley and teaching Hareton bad habits. Hindley dissipated his wealth and mortgaged the farmhouse to Heathcliff to pay his debts. Heathcliff eloped with Isabella. They marry and two months later return to Wuthering Heights. Heathcliff heard Catherine was ill and with Nelly's help visited her secretly. Catherine was not only ill, but pregnant, and the following day gave birth to a daughter, Cathy, and shortly after died.
The day after Catherine's funeral, Isabella left Heathcliff and took refuge in the south of England. She too was pregnant, and gave birth to a son, Linton. Hindley died six months after Catherine and Heathcliff found himself master of Wuthering Heights.
After twelve years, Catherine's daughter, Cathy, had grown into a beautiful, high-spirited girl. Edgar learnt his sister Isabella was dying, and set out to bring back her son, Linton to adopt and educate. Cathy, who had rarely left the borders of the Grange, took advantage of her father's absence to venture farther afield. She walked to the moors where she met Hareton and from him learnt about Wuthering Heights and discovers she has a cousin, Linton.
When Edgar returned with Linton, a weak and sickly boy, Cathy wanted him to stay but Heathcliff insisted on him living at Wuthering Heights.
Three years pass. Nelly and Cathy walking on the moors ran into Heathcliff and he took them to Wuthering Heights to meet Linton and Hareton. He hoped Linton and Cathy would marry so Linton would become the heir to Thrushcross Grange. Linton and Cathy began a secret friendship, echoing the childhood friendship between his father and her mother.
The following year, Edgar became very ill and when he is dying Nelly and Cathy visit Wuthering Heights. Heathcliff prevents them from leaving and keeps them captive to encourage the courtship of Cathy and Linton, and deny Edgar seeing his daughter before he dies. After five days Nelly was released, and with Linton's help Cathy escaped. She returned to the Grange to see her father after which he died.
Heathcliff, the master of Wuthering Heights and Thrushcross Grange, gave Cathy no choice but to leave Nelly and go to live with Heathcliff and Hareton. Soon after she arrives, Linton dies. Hareton tries to be kind to her, but she retreats into herself.
At this the point in the story Lockwood arrives, and Nelly's tale ends. After being ill for some time, Lockwood decided he had had enough of the moors and went to Wuthering Heights to let Heathcliff know he was returning to the south.
Lockwood returned to the area eight months later and as his tenancy at Thrushcross Grange was still valid, decided to remain. He found Nelly living at Wuthering Heights and made his way there to hear what had happened since he left.
She had moved to Wuthering Heights soon after Lockwood left to replace the housekeeper who had departed. In March, Hareton had an accident and was confined to the farmhouse. During his convalescence, he and Cathy became close. In April, while their friendship developed, Heathcliff began to act strangely and had visions of Catherine. He stopped eating and after four days was found dead in Catherine's old room. He was buried next to Catherine. Lockwood learned that Hareton and Cathy planned to marry on New Year's Day. As he is getting ready to leave he passes by the graves of Catherine, Edgar and Heathcliff, and pauses to contemplate the quiet of the moors.
Key:
There are several theories as to which building was the inspiration for Wuthering Heights. One is Top Withens, a ruined farmhouse, that is located in an isolated area near the Haworth Parsonage. Yet, its structure does not match that of the farmhouse described in the novel, and is therefore considered less likely to be the model. Top Withens was first suggested as the model for the fictitious farmhouse by Ellen Nussey, a friend of Charlotte Brontë, to Edward Morison Wimperis, a commissioned artist for the Brontë sisters' novels in 1872.
The second option is the now demolished High Sunderland Hall, near Halifax, West Yorkshire. This Gothic edifice was located near Law Hill, and was where Emily worked briefly as a governess in 1838. While very grand for the farmhouse of Wuthering Heights, the hall had grotesque embellishments of griffins and misshapen nude men similar to those described by Lockwood of Wuthering Heights in chapter one of the novel:
The inspiration for Thrushcross Grange has been traditionally connected to Ponden Hall, near Haworth, although very small. More likely is Shibden Hall, near Halifax. The Thrushcross Grange that Emily describes is rather unusual. It sits within an enormous park - which Shibden Hall does. By comparison, the park at Chatsworth (the home of the Duke of Devonshire) is over two miles (3.2&#160;km) long but, as the house sits near the middle, it is no more than a mile and a half (2.4&#160;km) from the lodge to the house. Considering that Edgar Linton apparently did not even have a title, it seems rather odd. There is no building close to Haworth which has a park anywhere near this size but a few houses which might have inspired some elements. Shibden Hall has several features which match the descriptions in the novel.
Early reviews of Wuthering Heights were mixed in their assessment. Whilst most critics recognised the power and imagination of the novel, many found the story unlikeable and the characters unpleasant. Released in 1847, at a time when the background of the author was deemed to have an important impact on the story itself, many critics were also intrigued by the authorship of the novels. Henry Chorley of the Athenæum said that it was a "disagreeable story" and that the 'Bells' (Brontës) "seem to affect painful and exceptional subjects".
The Atlas review called it a "strange, inartistic story," but commented that every chapter seems to contain a "sort of rugged power." Summarising the novel: "We know nothing in the whole range of our fictitious literature which presents such shocking pictures of the worst forms of humanity. There is not in the entire dramatis persona, a single character which is not utterly hateful or thoroughly contemptible ... Even the female characters excite something of loathing and much of contempt. Beautiful and loveable in their childhood, they all, to use a vulgar expression, "turn out badly."
Graham's Lady Magazine "How a human being could have attempted such a book as the present without committing suicide before he had finished a dozen chapters, is a mystery. It is a compound of vulgar depravity and unnatural horrors."
The American Whig Review "Respecting a book so original as this, and written with so much power of imagination, it is natural that there should be many opinions. Indeed, its power is so predominant that it is not easy after a hasty reading to analyze one's impressions so as to speak of its merits and demerits with confidence. We have been taken and carried through a new region, a melancholy waste, with here and there patches of beauty; have been brought in contact with fierce passions, with extremes of love and hate, and with sorrow that none but those who have suffered can understand. This has not been accomplished with ease, but with an ill-mannered contempt for the decencies of language, and in a style which might resemble that of a Yorkshire farmer who should have endeavored to eradicate his provincialism by taking lessons of a London footman. We have had many sad bruises and tumbles in our journey, yet it was interesting, and at length we are safely arrived at a happy conclusion."
Douglas Jerrold's Weekly Newspaper "Wuthering Heights is a strange sort of book,—baffling all regular criticism; yet, it is impossible to begin and not finish it; and quite as impossible to lay it aside afterwards and say nothing about. In Wuthering Heights the reader is shocked, disgusted, almost sickened by details of cruelty, inhumanity, and the most diabolical hate and vengeance, and anon come passages of powerful testimony to the supreme power of love — even over demons in the human form. The women in the book are of a strange fiendish-angelic nature, tantalising, and terrible, and the men are indescribable out of the book itself. Yet, towards the close of the story occurs the following pretty, soft picture, which comes like the rainbow after a storm....We strongly recommend all our readers who love novelty to get this story, for we can promise them that they never have read anything like it before. It is very puzzling and very interesting, and if we had space we would willingly devote a little more time to the analysis of this remarkable story, but we must leave it to our readers to decide what sort of book it is."
Examiner "This is a strange book. It is not without evidences of considerable power: but, as a whole, it is wild, confused, disjointed, and improbable; and the people who make up the drama, which is tragic enough in its consequences, are savages ruder than those who lived before the days of Homer."
Literary World "In the whole story not a single trait of character is elicited which can command our admiration, not one of the fine feelings of our nature seems to have formed a part in the composition of its principal actors. In spite of the disgusting coursness of much of the dialogue, and the improbabilities of much of the plot, we are spellbound."
Britannia called it a "strangely original" book that depicts "humanity in this wild state." Although mostly hostile, it notes that the book is "illuminated by some gleams of sunshine towards the end which serve to cast a grateful light on the dreary path we have traveled."
The earliest known film adaptation of Wuthering Heights was filmed in England and directed by A. V. Bramble. It is unknown if any prints still exist. The most famous was 1939's Wuthering Heights, starring Laurence Olivier and Merle Oberon and directed by William Wyler. This adaptation, like many others, eliminated the second generation's story (young Cathy, Linton and Hareton). It won the 1939 New York Film Critics Circle Award for Best Film and was nominated for the 1939 Academy Award for Best Picture.
The 1970 film with Timothy Dalton as Heathcliff is the first colour version of the novel, and gained acceptance over the years though it was initially poorly received. The character of Hindley is portrayed much more sympathetically, and his story-arc is altered. It also subtly suggests that Heathcliff may be Cathy's illegitimate half-brother.
The 1992 film Emily Brontë's Wuthering Heights starring Ralph Fiennes and Juliette Binoche is notable for including the oft-omitted second generation story of the children of Cathy, Hindley and Heathcliff.
Recent film or TV adaptations include ITV's 2009 two part drama series starring Tom Hardy, Charlotte Riley, Sarah Lancashire, and Andrew Lincoln. and the 2011 film starring Kaya Scodelario and James Howson directed by Andrea Arnold.
Adaptations which reset the story in a new setting include the 1954 adaptation retitled Abismos de Pasion directed by Spanish filmmaker Luis Buñuel set in Catholic Mexico, with Heathcliff and Cathy renamed Alejandro and Catalina. In Buñuel's version HeathcliffAlejandro claims to have become rich by making a deal with Satan. The New York Times reviewed a re-release of this film as "an almost magical example of how an artist of genius can take someone else's classic work and shape it to fit his own temperament without really violating it," noting that the film was thoroughly Spanish and Catholic in its tone while still highly faithful to Brontë. Also with a transposed setting is Yoshishige Yoshida's 1988 adaptation which set the story in Tokugawa period Japan. In this film, the Heathcliff character, Onimaru, is raised in a nearby community of priests who worship a local Fire God. In 2003, MTV produced a poorly reviewed version set in modern California high school.
The novel has been popular in opera and theatre, including operas written by Bernard Herrmann, Carlisle Floyd and Frédéric Chaslin (most of which like many films cover only the first half of the book) and a musical by Bernard J. Taylor. The libretto of Herrmann's opera (written by his wife) incorporates material from poems by Emily Brontë, and his score has a few musical motifs that appeared in both prior and subsequent film scores by Herrmann.
In autumn of 2008, Mark Ryan launched a dramatic musical adaptation of the novel, narrated by Ray Winstone. He composed, sang and produced the tracks with Robb Vallier who also worked on Spamalot. He also directed the video for the song "Women" filmed especially for the website and featuring Jennifer Korbee, Jessica Keenan Wynn and Katie Boeck.
A graphic novel (long, mature style, comic book) version came out in 2011 from the publisher Classical Comics, a publisher much praised by teachers and librarians for their high quality versions of classic novels. The graphic novel is 150 page and stays close to the original novel. It was adapted by Scottish writer Sean Michael Wilson, and hand painted by comic book veteran artist John M Burns. This version received a nomination for the Stan Lee Excelsior Awards, 2012 voted for by pupils from 170 schools across the UK.
Kate Bush's song "Wuthering Heights" is most likely the best-known creative work inspired by Brontë's story that is not properly an "adaptation." Bush wrote and released the song when she was just 18 years of age, choosing it to be the lead single in her debut album (despite the record company preferring another track as the lead single) and it shot her to worldwide fame. It was primarily inspired by the Olivier-Oberon film version which deeply affected the teenage Bush. The song is sung from Catherine's point of view as she pleads at Heathcliff's window to be let in. It uses quotations from Catherine, both in the chorus - "Let me in! I'm so cold!" - and the verses, with Catherine's admitting to her servant of "bad dreams in the night." Critic Sheila Whiteley writes that the ethereal quality of the vocal resonates with Cathy's dementia, and that Bush's high register has both "childlike qualities in its purity of tone" and an "underlying eroticism in its sinuous erotic contours."
Wuthering Heights is also in the company of novels that have inspired a role-playing game, despite not being a fantasy, spy, or detective story. The game is distributed free on the Internet by the French author Philippe Tromeur. The game is briefly alluded in the introduction to the 2007 Broadview Press edition of Wuthering Heights and in a footnote in the 2005 (Volume 33) issue of periodical Victorian literature and culture.
In 1850 when a second edition of Wuthering Heights was due for republishing, Charlotte Brontë decided to edit the original text published by Thomas Cautley Newby, including punctuation and Joseph's thick Yorkshire dialect. Writing to her publisher W.S. Williams, she mentions that "It seems to me advisable to modify the orthography of the old servant Joseph’s speeches; for though, as it stands, it exactly renders the Yorkshire dialect to a Yorkshire ear, yet I am sure Southerns must find it unintelligible; and thus one of the most graphic characters in the book is lost on them." An essay written by Irene Wiltshire on dialect and speech in Wuthering Heights, compares some of the edits Charlotte made to the original 1847 edition.
Of the many British TV adaptations of Emily Bronte's gothic romance Wuthering Heights, only a handful were able to cover the entire novel by virtue of the miniseries format. The first of these was telecast in four 50-minute segments from October 28 to November 18, 1967. Angela Scoular and Ian McShane were respectively starred as the foolishly headstrong aristocrat Cathy and her rough-hewn gypsy sweetheart Heathcliff. The next full-scale TV version of Wuthering Heights would not appear until 1978. ~ Hal Erickson, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 182&nbsp;mins
