We_Have_a_Pope
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 105
Director: Nanni Moretti
Cast: Michel Piccoli,Nanni Moretti,Jerzy Stuhr,Massimo Dobrovic,Renato Scarpa,Margherita Buy,Franco Graziosi,Leonardo Della Bianca,Camilla Ridolfi,Camillo Milli,Roberto Nobile,Gianluca Gobbi,Ulrich von Dobschütz,
Content: A man about to be elevated into a position of great responsibility and power has a serious case of cold feet in this comedy-drama from director and actor Nanni Moretti. The College of Cardinals has assembled at the Vatican with the important task of electing a new Pope to lead the Catholic Church. After much debate and a number of ballots that reach no consensus, an obscure but respected man, Cardinal Melville (Michel Piccoli), is chosen by the College to become the new pontiff. However, Melville is a humble man, and when he's told he's been elected to the highest office in the church, he flies into a panic and says he doesn't want to be Pope. Unfortunately, the cardinals have already announced that they've chosen a new Pontiff, so they bring in a psychiatrist (Nanni Moretti) to talk to Melville in hopes of determining if he's just suffering from a case of the jitters or if he has a more serious problem. After some initial interviews, the analyst wants a second opinion and asks his ex-wife (Margherita Buy), also a psychiatrist, to talk to Melville, but after spending some time at her home, the cardinal runs away and begins exploring Rome incognito, talking to ordinary people and pondering his unusual circumstances. Habemus Papam (aka We Have a Pope) received its North American premiere at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
We Have a Pope is a 2011 Italian comedy-drama film directed by Nanni Moretti. Its original title is Habemus Papam, the Latin phrase used upon the announcement of a new pope. The film stars Michel Piccoli as a cardinal who, against his wishes, is elected pope. Moretti co-stars as a psychiatrist who is called in to help the pope overcome his panic. The film premiered in Italy in April 2011 and played in competition at the 64th Cannes Film Festival.
On the death of the pope, the conclave meets in Rome. Early ballots end with black smoke, since none of the main candidates reaches the quorum. After several rounds of voting, Cardinal Melville is elected, though he had not previously been considered a frontrunner.
At the moment of the public announcement, with the faithful are gathered in St. Peter's Square and the cardinal proto-deacon ready to announce the name of the new pope, the newly-elected pope has a panic attack and fails to appear on the balcony.
The spokesman of the Holy See evades questions from the press and the curiosity of the outside world by reporting that the new pontiff felt the need to sequester himself in prayer and reflection before taking office, and by explaining that he will make his official appearance within a few hours. This does not happen.
In accordance with the laws of the Church, until the pope appears before the people on the balcony, the ceremony of election is not over and no one in the conclave can have contact with the outside world.
The College of Cardinals, deeply concerned by the crisis and the depression from which the new pope seems to be suffering, calls in the psychoanalyst Professor Brezzi. The cardinals react to the psychoanalyst with some suspicion, but still allow him to examine the new pope. Brezzi, in the presence of the cardinals, tries to initiate a psychotherapy session which, however, fails to reveal anything to explain the depression and helplessness that plague the pontiff.
Brezzi reveals that his ex-wife is also a psychoanalyst and the newly elected pope is taken secretly to see her, but escapes his minders and runs away during a walk. Unaware of his absence, the cardinals kill time by playing games, ranging from cards to an international volleyball tournament organized by Brezzi.
Vatican spokesman Marcin Rajski makes everyone believe that the Pope is in his quarters in prayer, and eventually the cardinals find Melville and give him another chance to announce his acceptance. However, when Melville comes out onto the balcony he declines his new position, claiming "I am not the leader you need," and retreats back into St. Peter's.

