Juan_of_the_Dead
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 96
Director: Alejandro Brugués
Cast: Alexis Díaz de Villegas,Jorge Molina,Andrea Duro,Andros Perugorría,Jazz Vila,Eliecer Ramírez,Antonio Dechent,Blanca Rosa Blanco,Elsa Camp,Susana Pous,Eslinda Núñez,Juan Miguel Mas,Manuel Herrera,Luis Alberto García,
Content: Two friends from Cuba hatch a plan to launch a zombie extermination service after their picturesque island is overrun by the living dead in this satirical horror film from director Alejandro Brugues (Personal Belongings). It's the anniversary of the Cuban Revolution, and as the hungry undead make an unwelcomed appearance, best friends Juan (Alexis Días de Villegas) and Lazardo (Jorge Molina) decide to parlay their skills for dispatching zombies into a professional career. As the government attempts to maintain public order by blaming the fracas on Americans who they claim are attempting to topple the current regime, Juan and Lazardo rally the troops, gather their weapons, and prepare to make a killing by ridding Cuba of zombies one shambling, flesh-eating corpse at a time. 
Wiki info: 
Juan of the Dead (Spanish: Juan de los Muertos) is a Spanish-Cuban zombie film written and directed by Alejandro Brugues. in 2010. Coproduction by La Zanfoña Producciones (España), Producciones de la 5ta Avenida (Cuba), with the participation of the ICAIC Canal Sur and Televisión Española.
Juan Alexis Díaz de Villegas is forty years old and has devoted the majority of his life to living in Cuba doing absolutely nothing. This is his way of life and he is willing to defend it at any price. He is accompanied by his partner and sidekick, Lazarus Jorge Molina who is just as lazy but the bigger fool. The only emotional bond John has is with his daughter Camila Andrea Hard, a young and beautiful girl who wants nothing to do with her father because the only thing he does is get in trouble.
Suddenly a strange series of events begin to occur: people become violent and attack each other. After some hesitation, John comes to the conclusion that it is zombies and decides that the best way to deal with the situation is to prosper from it and starts a business with the slogan: 'John of the Dead: we kill your loved ones. How can we help you today?'

