Sound_of_Noise
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 102
Director: Ola Simonsson
Cast: Bengt Nilsson,Sanna Persson,Magnus Börjeson,Marcus Haraldson Boij,Fredrik Myhr,Anders Vestergård,Johannes Björk,Sven Ahlström,Ralph Carlsson,Paula McManus,Peter Schildt,Pelle Öhlund,Dag Malmberg,Björn Granath,Anders Jansson,
Content: A group of musical anarchists stage sonic "attacks" in hospitals and banks, using found items as instruments and evading a tone-deaf cop with a burning hatred of harmony. Sanna is the leader of a group that stages impromptu musical performances in public places. Once they have taken their positions and turned on their metronome, there's no stopping the music. Meanwhile, anti-terrorism squad leader Amadeus Warnebring -- a frustrated cop who hails from a family of famed musicians -- vows to take down Sanna's sonic anarchists by whatever means necessary. 
Wiki info: 
Sound of Noise is a 2010 Swedish-French comedy-crime film written and directed by Ola Simonsson and Johannes Stjärne Nilsson. It tells the story of a group of musicians who illegally perform music on objects in the various institutions of a city. The film is a follow-up to the 2001 short film Music for One Apartment and Six Drummers, which was made by the same people and followed the same basic concept. The title comes from the Italian futurist Luigi Russolo's 1913 manifesto The Art of Noises.
A group of four anarchist drummers led by a conductor and a female musician set out to make music with objects that are generally considered non-musical. They plan out a concert with four hilariously titled movements to be played across the city after carefully analyzing what objects can be used to make good music. They begin by playing in a surgery room using a notable TV reporter who has been admitted to the hospital for hemorrhoid surgery. Their next piece is set in a bank where they "hold up" the staff and customers. They then feed banknotes into the shredding machine for a distorted bass sound. The next piece uses bulldozers thumping the ground at the fountain in front of an opera house. For the final crescendo, they strike the fountain knocking it to the ground. The last piece involves them hanging from high tension power cables and playing the suspended cables like violins. All the while, they are pursued by a tone-deaf policeman born into a distinguished musical family who hates the sound of music.

