Bathory
Released Year: 2008
Running time: 141
Director: Juraj Jakubisko
Cast: Anna Friel,Karel Roden,Vincent Regan,Hans Matheson,Franco Nero,Deana Jakubiskova-Horvathova,Bolek Polívka,Antony Byrne,Jiří Madl,Lucie Vondračkova,Marek Majeský,Hana Vagnerova,
Content: The infamous Countess Erzsebet Bathory, who is said to have maintained youth and beauty into her old age by bathing in the blood of virgins, has her life story told in a more balanced but still provocative manner in this grand-scale historical drama. Bathory, played by Anna Freil, is portrayed in three important episodes from her life. Bathory falls in love with the legendary artist Caravaggio (Hans Matheson) and attempts to win his heart, which doesn't much amuse her husband Ferenc Nadasy (Vincent Regan). Later, Bathory becomes close friends with Darvulia (Deana Jakubiskova), a woman said to have remarkable healing powers, as observers remark upon Bathory's beauty which seems impervious to the passage of time or the stress of her life. And after the death of her husband, Bathory rises to a position of political power in Hungary, as Palatine Thurzo (Karel Roden) leads a plot to scuttle her ambitions. Bathory also features Bolek Polivka as a monk who narrates the countess's remarkable story. 
Wiki info: 
Bathory (also released as Bathory: Countess of Blood) is a 2008 fantasy film written and directed by Juraj Jakubisko. Filming began in December 2005, and the film was released in July 2008. Jakubisko's first English-language film is an international co-production between the cinemas of Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, and the United Kingdom.
The film is based on the story of Elizabeth Bathory, a 16th–17th century Hungarian countess. Her story takes place in a part of the Kingdom of Hungary, now Slovakia. She is infamous for killing many young women because – according to legend – she thought that bathing in their blood would preserve her youth. Eventually the royal authorities investigated, and she was walled up in her castle, where she died four years later.

