Headhunters
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 100
Director: Morten Tyldum
Cast: Aksel Hennie,Nikolaj Coster-Waldau,Synnøve Macody Lund,Julie Ølgaard,Eivind Sander,
Content: A man living on both sides of the law is caught in a dangerous game in this thriller from Norwegian director Morten Tyldum. Roger Brown (Aksel Hennie) makes his living as a corporate recruiter, finding talented people who work for other companies and making them lucrative offers to join the firm currently signing his paychecks. Roger's work brings with it a handsome salary, but he suffers crushing insecurity when it comes to his beautiful wife Diana (Synnove Macody Lund), and he constantly showers her with expensive gifts in hopes of staying on her good side. Between Diana's expectations and the equally expensive tastes of Roger's mistress Lotte (Julie R. Olgaard), Roger needs cash, so he's taken on a high-paying second job -- stealing rare works of art. Roger is just good enough and smart enough to know that he'll get caught eventually, and when he learns of a man with an authentic Rubens, he hopes to make one last score that will keep him well-set for a long time. But Roger soon finds out there's a catch -- the man with the painting is also someone he's supposed to recruit for a client, and he's clearly a few steps ahead of Roger. Hodejegerne (aka Headhunters) was an official selection at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
Headhunters (Norwegian: Hodejegerne) is a 2011 Norwegian action thriller film based on the 2008 novel of the same name by Jo Nesbø. The film was directed by Morten Tyldum and stars Aksel Hennie, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau and Synnøve Macody Lund. Hennie portrays the successful but insecure corporate recruiter Roger Brown who lives a double life as an art thief to fund his lavish lifestyle. He finds out that one of his job prospects is in possession of a valuable painting and sets out to steal it.
Released in Norway on 26 August 2011, Headhunters was a box office success, receiving positive reviews, and was nominated for multiple awards, including four Amanda Awards and a BAFTA Award for Best Film Not in the English Language.
Roger Brown (Aksel Hennie) is Norway's most successful headhunter and is married to Diana (Synnøve Macody Lund), a gallery owner. Roger is also an art thief who steals paintings from clients. His partner Ove (Eivind Sander) works at a surveillance company and deactivates security at the victims' homes.
At Diana's gallery, Roger meets Clas Greve (Nikolaj Coster-Waldau) who wants to work for Pathfinder, a GPS technologies company, for which Roger is recruiting. Roger becomes jealous of Clas due to his attention to Diana. Roger is told that Clas owns a rare Rubens painting and contacts Ove to work out the details of the theft.
Shortly thereafter, Roger manages to steal the painting from Clas' home. Calling Diana while still in Clas' home, he discovers her phone in Clas' bed. The next day he contacts Ove, but discovers him in a car in his garage, apparently dead. Roger discovers a poison syringe in the car seat and dumps Ove's body in a lake, but the water revives Ove, who didn't get a full dose of the poison. The two go to Ove's home, and Roger kills Ove in an argument, taking Ove's clothes as a disguise. When Roger exits, he sees Clas waiting outside. After a scuffle, Roger escapes to a farm in Ove's car, tailed by Clas, where Clas murders the farmer and Roger kills Clas' Dogo Argentino dog. After Roger escapes, he is involved in a car accident.
Roger awakens in a hospital, where he finds he is now wanted for the murder of the farmer due to police thinking he is Ove, who is believed to have killed the farmer. After he tries to escape, he is arrested by a pair of police officers. As Roger is being driven away, Clas, in a stolen truck, rams the car. Roger pretends to have died on impact and Clas leaves him for dead. Roger shaves his head after believing location transmitters are in a gel in his hair and puts the clippings in a bag in the car.
Roger visits his former mistress, Lotte (Julie Ølgaard), for assistance and discovers she is working with Clas. He confronts Lotte, who reveals Clas was trying to steal Pathfinder's technology and arranged Clas and Roger's meeting. A short fight ensues and Lotte stabs Roger, who then shoots and kills her. Roger returns home and Diana apologizes for her affair with Clas.
The next morning, Roger goes to a morgue to retrieve his hair clippings. Diana contacts Clas, appearing to resume their affair. Roger goes to Ove's cabin and cleans up the evidence as Clas walks into the room with a gun. Ove's home had a video camera which did not record Ove's murder but did record Clas with a gun. As a gunfight begins, it is revealed that Diana had replaced Clas' bullets with blanks. Roger shoots Clas and arranges the evidence so it looks like Ove was the shooter. The police investigation determines that Ove killed Lotte and was working with Clas.
Later, Roger and a visibly pregnant Diana are shown selling their house. Roger is then back at work, introducing a new CEO candidate to Pathfinder execs.

