Weekend
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 97
Director: Andrew Haigh
Cast: 
Content: Two men wonder if they've found love or just had a drunken hookup in this drama from British director Andrew Haigh. Russell (Tom Cullen) is gay, but most of his friends are straight, and after a long night of boozing with his pals, he stops by a gay club on his way home and picks up Glen (Chris New). The next morning, Glen explains that he's an artist, and begins interviewing Russell about their night together for an installation project he has in the works. Alcohol has made Russell's memory of the previous evening a bit fuzzy, but just as importantly, he's not as comfortable as Glen when it comes to opening up about his sexuality or his personal thoughts. Glen, on the other hand, is willing to share, but there isn't always a lot of depth in his exchange of ideas. Over the course of the next two days, Russell and Glen spend a lot of time talking, exploring the city, and exploring one another, but neither is sure if they're at the start of a new relationship or just avoiding the end of a one-night stand, especially after Glen mentions he's planning to move to the United States soon. Weekend won the Audience Award in the Emerging Visions program at the 2011 South by Southwest Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
Weekend is a 2011 British romantic drama film directed by Andrew Haigh. The film stars Tom Cullen and Chris New.
On a Friday night in Nottingham, after a house party with his friends, Russell (Tom Cullen) heads out to a gay club, alone and looking for an encounter. Just before closing time he meets Glen (Chris New), an aspiring artist, and they end up sleeping together back in Russell's apartment. The next morning, Glen has Russell speak into a voice recorder about their experience. Glen says this is for an art project. After Glen leaves, Russell writes about Glen on his laptop, something he does about each of the men he has seen.
Russell, who works as a lifeguard, feels lonely about his lot in life. The next day Glen and Russell meet up and the two ride Russell's bike together. Back at Russell's apartment, they spend the day together, sharing stories of their past encounters and their experiences as gay men. Russell confides to Glen how he grew up in a foster home with a friend, Jamie, whom he considered as his brother.
Russell learns that Glen is leaving for Oregon the next day for a two-year art course. This leaves Russell upset. Glen invites him to attend a party he is throwing in a bar that night. Instead of forgetting his developing relationship with Glen, Russell goes to see him in the bar. Russell chats with a friend of Glen's, who reveals that Glen never let her listen to Russell's tape and that Glen usually lets her listen to all of them. She says that she and her friends don't expect Glen to follow through with his America trip, and also that Glen had a relationship with a guy named John, who cheated on him but became a martyr in their relationship and how he got beaten up in the park.
The pair get out of the bar and spend their time in the amusement park where Glen admits that he is never happy and feels down whenever he's with his friends. When they get back to Russell's place, they smoke marijuana and snort cocaine. At one point, Russel admits to Glen that he has something similar to Glen's art project, but his is not for anyone else. He reads some of his entries to Glen. It is revealed that one of the men Russell had slept with had been John, Glen's ex-boyfriend. Glen tries to laugh it off saying "he'd love this" – referring to his ex. It is not long before they have an argument as Glen speculates that things would be better for him in America, rather than in England. Russell believes they could be happy together, in a relationship. Russell then rebukes Glen for his relationship with John in that John made it difficult for Glen to trust others. Glen then strikes back at Russell telling him that he doesn't know anything about his life and that John couldn't even stand up for himself. This upsets Russell and he leaves to the bathroom.
However, Russell and Glen are reconciled, and soon they passionately share a kiss and sleep together. In the morning, they play a game where Glen pretends to be Russell's father where he could finally come out to him (a chance Russell never had as he never met his father). After Glen leaves, Russell feels desolate and goes to attend the birthday party of his friend Jamie's daughter. Jamie asks him what is wrong and, after some hesitation, Russell finally explains about Glen. Jamie suggests he drop Russell off at the train station to see Glen off. Jamie then drives Russell to the train station, where he chances upon Glen – who jokes how he expected him to show up. They say their last goodbyes and Glen kisses Russell, who finally overcomes his fear of being "out" in public. Glen hands Russell a present, which was the voice recorder on which Glen had earlier recorded Russell's account of how they met and their first encounter.
During a Q&A session at the IFI in Dublin on November 11, 2011, Director Andrew Haigh said the cost of making the movie was "around 120,000" — not specifying a currency.
Weekend received its world premiere at the SXSW Film Festival in Austin, Texas, in March 2011. It was released in the United States on September 23, 2011, and in the United Kingdom on November 4, 2011.
A "director-approved special edition" of Weekend was released in Region A1 by The Criterion Collection, on both Blu-ray Disc and DVD, on August 21, 2012. The release includes a high-definition digital master of the movie; new interviews with cast and crew; two of Cullen and New's joint audition scenes; two short films by Haigh: Cahuenga Blvd. (2003) and Five Miles Out (2009); and additional features.
Weekend has been critically acclaimed. Review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes reports that 94% of critics have given the film a positive review based on 72 reviews, with an average score of 810.
The film has received several awards and nominations:

