My_Way
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 143
Director: Kang Je Gyu
Cast: Jang Dong-gun - Kim Jun-shik,Joe Odagiri - Tatsuo Hasegawa,Fan Bingbing - Shirai,Kim In-kwon - Lee Jong-dae,Lee Yeon-hee - Kim Eun-soo,Kim Hee-won - Choon Bok,
Content: Two rival marathon runners find their dreams of competing in the Tokyo Olympics fading after World War II breaks out and they are forced to serve their country. Jun-shik works on a farm owned by Tatsuo's grandfather. An aspiring Olympian, Jun-shik dreams of the day he will win the gold as a marathon runner. But Tatsuo also wants to be an Olympic runner, and he's determined to be the best. When the bombs start to fall and both men are drafted into service, Tatsuo becomes the leader of Jun-shik's unit and hatches an ambitious plan to get the upper hand over their enemies. Unfortunately his plot fails, and both men are taken prisoner by the Soviets. Subsequently escaping but torn apart by fate, Tatsuo and Jun-shik later cross paths on the beaches of Normandy, just as the Allies prepare to execute Operation Overlord. 
Wiki info: 
My Way (Hangul: 마이 웨이; RR: Mai Wei) is a 2011 South Korean war film by Kang Je-gyu which stars Jang Dong-gun along with Japanese actor Joe Odagiri and Chinese actress Fan Bingbing.
This film is inspired by the true story of a Korean named Yang Kyoungjong who was captured by the Americans on D-Day. Yang Kyoungjong was conscripted in the Japanese Imperial Army, the Red Army and the Wehrmacht.
The year is 1928 in Gyeong-seong (modern-day Seoul), Korea. Young Kim Jun-shik (Shin Sang-yeob), his father (Chun Ho-jin) and sister Eun-soo (Jo Min-ah) work on the farm of the Hasegawa family (Sano Shiro, Nakamura Kumi) in Japanese-occupied Korea. Both Jun-shik and young Hasegawa Tatsuo (Sung Yoo-bin) are interested in running; by the time they are teenagers (Do Ji-han, Kobayashi Yukichi), they have become fierce competitors. Tatsuo's grandfather (Natsuyagi Isao) is killed in a bomb attack by a Korean freedom fighter and subsequently a Korean runner, Sohn Kee-chung (Yoon Hee-won), wins a marathon race against Japanese competitors, further inflaming Korean-Japanese tensions.
In May 1938, Jun-shik (Jang Dong-gun) is working as a rickshaw runner. Koreans have been banned from taking part in sports events and Tatsuo (Joe Odagiri), now a fierce Japanese nationalist, has sworn that a Korean will never again win a race. Though he has been accepted by a medical college in Berlin, Tatsuo decides to stay in Korea to run in the All Japan Trials for the marathon. Sohn secretly backs Jun-shik and the latter wins the race, though Tatsuo is awarded the medal when Jun-shik is disqualified for allegedly cheating; a riot by Korean spectators ensues. As punishment, those who started the riot are are forcibly drafted into the Japanese army, including Jun-shik and his friend Lee Jong-dae (Kim In-kwon), who has a crush on Eun-soo (Lee Yeon-hee).
In July 1939, they find themselves, along with 100 other Koreans, in the battle at Nomonhan, on the Mongolian border, where a Chinese sniper, Shirai (Fan Bingbing), avenging the death of her family at the hands of the Japanese, is captured and tortured. Tatsuo, now a colonel, arrives and takes over command, forcing the existing commander, Takakura (Tsurumi Shingo), to commit hara-kiri. After refusing to join a suicide squad organized by Tatsuo to fight the Soviets, Jun-shik is imprisoned with Shirai but escapes with her, Jong-dae and two other friends to the River Khalkhin. Jun-shik, seeing the tanks on the horizon, attempts to return to base to warn the Japanese forces. During his return, he is attacked by a Soviet war plane and is saved by Shirai, who dies after shooting down the plane. Jun-shik returns to the base and manages to warn the Japanese forces that a large-scale Soviet tank attack is coming but Tatsuo refuses to order a retreat.
In February 1940, Jun-shik and Tatsuo end up in Kungursk POW camp, north of Perm, in the Soviet Union, where both Koreans and Japanese are incarcerated together. Under the name of Anton, Jong-dae has become a work-unit leader and helps his Korean friends, while Tatsuo is humiliated and almost killed by Jun-shik in a fight. When news comes that Germany has declared war on the Soviet Union, Jun-shik and Tatsuo are among those forcibly drafted into the Soviet army. They both fight in a bloody battle against the German army at Hedosk in December 1941. Both men find themselves alive at the end of the battle and Jun-shik convinces Tatsuo to don German military apparel taken from bodies and travel over the mountains. As they travel, it becomes clear that Tatsuo has been injured. They come upon a town where Jun-shik goes to find medicine to give to Tatsuo. During his search, he is found by German soldiers, who, unable to understand him, capture him.
Three years later, Tatsuo is part of the German Army. He finds himself on the beaches of Normandy, France, just prior to the D-Day Allied invasion. As the army fortifies the beaches, Tatsuo sees a man running on the beach. He catches up to him and see that it is Jun-shik. It is apparent that they have not seen each other since right after the battle in Hedosk. They decide to run away from Normandy to go home, back to Korea. As they attempt to leave, an airborne assault begins. Still, they try to leave. As they run, Jun-shik is wounded by a bomb fragment in the chest. A dying Jun-shik tells Tatsuo that "He is now Jun-shik," as Tatsuo is Japanese and considered an enemy of the Americans. Tatsuo is later seen running and winning the 1948 Olympic games then a flashback appears of their first encounter.

