Attenberg
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 93
Director: Athina Rachel Tsangari
Cast: Ariane Labed,Vangelis Mourikis,Evangelia Randou,Yorgos Lanthimos,
Content: Love, death, obsession, and family ties motivate the characters in this offbeat drama from writer and director Athina Rachel Tsangari. Marina (Ariane Labed) is an eccentric woman in her early 20s who has few friends and is physically repulsed by men, though she isn't satisfied by sex with women. One of the few things that bring Marina happiness is a high-rise block of flats in the industrial town where she was born; while the building is plain and unexceptional, there's something about the place (built to house the workers at an aluminum-processing facility) that fascinates her. The building was designed in part by Marina's father (Vangelis Mourikis), who is similarly obsessed with his own handiwork. As their love of the building brings them together, Marina becomes her father's companion and helper as he struggles through therapy for advanced cancer, with his coming death lurking on the horizon. Attenberg received its North American premiere at the 2010 Toronto International Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
Attenberg is a Greek drama film, written and directed by Athina Rachel Tsangari. The film was nominated for the Golden Lion at the 67th Venice International Film Festival and Ariane Labed won the Coppa Volpi for the Best Actress. It was filmed in the town of Aspra Spitia, in the Greek region of Boeotia. The film was selected as the Greek entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 84th Academy Awards, but it did not make the final shortlist.
Marina, a sexually inexperienced 23 year old woman, lives with her terminally-ill architect father, Spyros, in an industrial Greek town by the sea.
Unable to relate to her fellow humans, she lives her life through the wildlife documentaries of Sir David Attenborough, the songs of Suicide and the sex education lessons given to her by her friend Bella.
Despite her sexual inexperience, Marina's relationships show warmth and thought. Spyros, contemplative as he approaches death, shares with her how he believes, "Man has designed ruins with mathematical accuracy..." referring to the destiny of most architecture, eventually. But then cynically, he reflects that " We (Greece) went from sheep to bulldozers...' The father-daughter relationship is a touching one.
When a stranger comes to town, Marina has her first sexual relationship with him. She is secretive. Telling first Spyros and later Bella. Spyros asks of course, "If you do not want me to meet him, why are you telling me about him?"
She later asks Bella to sleep with her father, as a favor for a dying man, whom she duly obliges.

