The_Moth_Diaries
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 82
Director: Mary Harron
Cast: Sarah Bolger – Rebecca,Lily Cole – Ernessa Bloch,Sarah Gadon – Lucie Blake,Scott Speedman – Mr. Davies,Laurence Hamelin – Sofia,
Content: Director Mary Harron adapts author Rachel Klein's portentous novel about a teenage boarding-school student who fears that a mysterious newcomer has cast a dark spell over her cherished best friend. In the aftermath of her father's suicide, Rebecca (Sarah Bolger) had a difficult time making an emotional recovery. That all changed when she met Lucy (Sarah Gadon), a fellow student who helped to draw her out of her deep depression. Upon returning for their next semester at Brangwyn College, however, Rebecca and Lucy begin drifting apart following the arrival of Ernessa (Lily Cole), a moody new student who takes an immediate liking to Lucy and accosts her at every opportunity. When Rebecca's teacher Mr. Davies (Scott Speedman) gives his class the assignment of reading Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu's classic gothic novel Carmilla, Rebecca begins to suspect Ernessa of being a vampire intent on consuming Lucy's life force. Those suspicions seem to be confirmed when the students and staff of the school begin dying under mysterious circumstances and Lucy falls gravely ill. But the more Rebecca reaches out to Mr. Davies for help, the more unstable she begins to appear. Left with no other choice in order to save the life of her best friend, Rebecca vows to reveal Ernessa for what she truly is, and in the process makes a disturbing discovery. 
Wiki info: 
The Moth Diaries is a 2011 Irish-Canadian horror film directed by Mary Harron and based on a 2002 novel of the same name by Rachel Klein.
At an exclusively girls' boarding school, Rebecca (Sarah_Bolger), a sixteen-year-old teenage girl records her most intimate thoughts in a diary. Two years ago, Rebecca's father, a gloomy poet, commits suicide by slitting his wrist. Her mother transferred Rebecca to this school, hoping to help her daughter escape the dark memories of her father's death. With the help of her best friend and roommate, Lucy (Sarah_Gadon), and many other girls, Rebecca soon recovers.
But this year will never be the same. A mysterious, dark-haired girl named Ernessa Bloch (Lily_Cole), enrolls into this school. Lucy quickly becomes bestfriends with Ernessa and becomes distance from Rebecca. Ernessa's presence makes Rebecca feel uneasy. She tries to confront Lucy about Ernessa's dark secrets, but her pleas are dismissed as pure jealousy. Eerie things start to happen. First, Charlie (Val) gets expelled because of Ernessa. Dora dies in a freak accident shortly after spying on Ernessa's room. Then the bizarre murder of a teacher in the woods. Tension is growing.
To Rebecca, Ernessa is an enigma. She seems like she can walk through closed windows, and she is often seen lingering around the basement (a place that all students are forbidden to go). Rebecca thinks Ernessa is a vampire.
Ernessa slowly gets rid of Rebecca's close friends. Rebecca is left at the battle herself.
A new English teacher, Mr Davies (Scott Speedman), arrives at the school. Mr Davies shows particular interest in Rebecca. The two share ideas on Romantic literature and poetry. Rebecca soon learns that vampires don't necessary drink blood, but they can drain the lively spirit out of their victims. Mr Davies addresses himself as a fan of Rebecca's poet father. Rebecca turns to Mr Davies for help, but it is no use. During their conversation, the two kiss but Rebecca then pulls herself away.
On several occasions, Ernessa confronts Rebecca in the library, she presents Rebecca a sharp razor and elaborates on the pleasure of death. Ernessa sings a disturbing nursery rhyme about "the Juniper Tree" then slits her own wrists. After the rain of blood, Ernessa disappears.
Lucy is sent to the hospital. Only Rebecca knows that Lucy is sick because of Ernessa. Rebecca tries to convince Lucy that Ernessa is the root of all their problems, but Lucy refuses to listen and profanes at her. Although Lucy recovers for a couple days, she soon dies because Ernessa completely drained the life out of her.
Rebecca steals the keys to the basement, she sees an old stone coffin with Ernessa's full name engraved on. In an old diary, Rebecca learns that 50 years ago, Ernessa's father committed suicide, Ernessa couldn't cope with grief, she then turns to suicide, too. Rebecca soon learns that for the whole time, Ernessa is here because Ernessa wants her to kill herself. In other words, she is the target victim.
Shortly after, Rebecca returns to the basement, she discovers Ernessa sleeping in the stone coffin. Rebecca then pours gasoline on the coffin, and lights a fire. Ernessa screams and is burned to death.
At the end of the movie, Rebecca sees the ghost of Ernessa, slowly walking through the door, into the sun, and vanishes.
Rebecca is on her way to the police station, she is going to be charged for incendiary. Then the credits roll.
The film was shown Out of Competition at the 68th Venice International Film Festival.

