Cosmopolis
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 109
Director: David Cronenberg
Cast: Robert Pattinson,Jay Baruchel,Philip Nozuka,Paul Giamatti,Kevin Durand,Juliette Binoche,Samantha Morton,Sarah Gadon,Mathieu Amalric,K'naan,Emily Hampshire,Patricia McKenzie,
Content: Director David Cronenberg adapts author Don DeLillo's novel about a Manhattan billionaire (Robert Pattinson) who finds his quest to get a haircut from his father's old barber complicated by the presidential motorcade, a gang of violent anarchists, and a funeral procession for a famous hip-hop star. Meanwhile, the wealthy 28-year-old's vast fortune rests on the value of the yuan, which he continually monitors from the comfort of his stretch limo. Samantha Morton, Paul Giamatti, and Juliette Binoche co-star. 
Wiki info: 
Cosmopolis is a 2012 drama science fiction film written, produced and directed by David Cronenberg and starring Robert Pattinson. It is based on the novel of the same name by Don DeLillo. On May 25, 2012, the film premiered in competition for the Palme d'Or at the 2012 Cannes Film Festival, drawing mixed early critical reactions. The film was released in Canada on June 8, 2012, and began a limited release in the United States on August 17, 2012. It is Cronenberg's first foray into sci-fi cinema since 1999's eXistenZ
A 28-year-old billionaire stock speculatorasset manager Eric Packer (Robert Pattinson), rides slowly across Manhattan, despite traffic jams, in his state-of-the-art luxury stretch limousine that he uses as his office, while on his way to his preferred barber. The traffic jams are caused by a visit of the President of the United States and by the funeral of Eric's favorite musician, a Sufi rap artist whose music he plays in one of his two private elevators. Despite his clearly plummeting fortunes, Packer fantasizes about buying the Mark Rothko Chapel. He has recently married; he meets his wife in her taxi, in a library and outside a theater. She doesn't seem interested in having sex with her husband, Packer. Packer has sex with other women, and his wife takes it as a reason for breaking their union. Meanwhile, anti-capitalist activists on the street demonstrate by waving rats and declaring that "A specter is haunting the world: the specter of capitalism". They spray-paint Packer's limo, and he is later subjected to a pieing by one of the activists. Packer learns that an assassin is out to kill him, but seems curiously uninterested in who the person might be.
In his car, while having a meeting, he has his doctor carry out his daily medical checkup; Eric worries about the doctor's finding that he has an asymmetrical prostate. After devastating currency speculation, which wipes out most of his fortune, his world begins to disintegrate. Eventually he kills his bodyguard. Arriving at the barber, who knew his father, Packer has his hair cut on one side. The barber and the black limo driver discuss their respective careers driving cabs and the barber, learning that Packer has thrown away his gun, gives him his own gun. Packer follows a path of further self-destruction, including visiting his potential murderer, Richard Steele, a man who used to work for him. Packer seems likely to commit suicide but instead deliberately shoots himself in the hand. The murderer, who feels adrift in the capitalist system, explains to Packer that his mistake in speculating was looking for perfect symmetry and patterns in the stock market; instead, he should have looked for the lopsided - his body with its asymmetrical prostate was telling him this. The film ends with the potential murderer holding a gun to Eric's head and threatening to kill him, but a final shot is not shown.

