Post_Mortem
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 98
Director: Pablo Larrain
Cast: Alfredo Castro - Mario Cornejo,Antonia Zegers - Nancy Puelma (Bim Bam Bum dancer),Jaime Vadell - Dr. Castillo,Amparo Noguera - Sandra,Marcelo Alonso - Victor,Marcial Tagle - Captain Montes,Santiago Graffigna - David Puelma,Ernesto Malbran - Arturo Puelma,Aldo Parodi - Director of Bim Bam Bum,
Content: Love makes life complicated for one man as his country is thrown into chaos in this drama from director Pablo Larrain. It's 1973, and Mario (Alfredo Castro) makes his living assisting a coroner in Chile. The nation is in turmoil, as the leadership of Salvador Allende is on the verge of being toppled in a coup d'etat, and Allende's leftist supporters are fighting with soldiers on the streets. However, Mario's thoughts are elsewhere, as he's fascinated with Nancy (Antonia Zegers), who lives in his neighborhood and dances in a seedy nightclub. While Nancy usually shows little interest in Mario, she accepts when he offers to give her a ride home one evening, and he thinks fate is smiling on him until they're caught up in a demonstration on their way and Nancy is spirited away by Victor (Marcelo Alonso), a pro-Allende activist. Later that evening, Nancy pays Mario a visit when she discovers her father is hosting a meeting of Union supporters acting against the coup; Mario is happy to see her, but over the next 24 hours matters turn ugly as Nancy's father and brother are killed and he's summoned in to work to help deal with the bodies left behind by the military takeover. Post Mortem received its North American premiere at the 2010 New York Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
Post Mortem is a 2010 Chilean film directed by Pablo Larraín and set during the 1973 military coup that overthrew former President Salvador Allende, inaugurating the 17-year dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet. The film competed in the 67th Venice International Film Festival, Antofagasta Film Festival, Havana Film Festival and the Guadalajara International Film Festival.
Mario (Alfredo Castro) is a pathologist's assistant in Santiago who is responsible for noting down the pathologist's commentary during the post mortem. The job has given him a grey, death-like appearance. Previously, in the days of the military coup, Mario became involved in a love affair with a show dancer, Nancy (Antonia Zegers), who lives across the street with her communist older brother. On the morning of September 11, the date of the coup, a military raid takes place in Nancy’s house. Her brother and father, communists and Allende supporters, are being arrested. Mario then begins a frantic search for Nancy, who has disappeared, all the while having to endure pressure from the military who want to hide the real cause of death of the bodies piling up in the morgue.
The film has been well received by the critics and considered further proof of Larraín’s talent, previously noted in Tony Manero. It received four stars from both The Guardian, which called it “an eerie portrait of a disturbing time” and Time Out, which praised the “humorously unconventional framings, expressively washed-out colour tones and mysterious low-key performances” that bring together “human comedy and historical tragedy to unique, and surprisingly emotional, effect.”. The New York Times critic A. O. Scott wrote that “the achievement of Post Mortem is to take rigorous and unsentimental measure of the unpleasantness”. Post Mortem has also been popular on the Rotten Tomatoes public film reviews website, where it currently (as at February 2013) has a 84% approval rate

