The_Snowtown_Murders
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 120
Director: Justin Kurzel
Cast: Daniel Henshall,Lucas Pittaway,Aaron Viergever,David Walker,Louise Harris,Keiran Schwerdt,Bob Adriaens,Frank Cwiertniak,Matthew Howard,Marcus Howard,Anthony Groves,Richard Green,
Content: A harrowing account of the true crime story that shocked Australia, Justin Kurzel's Snowtown follows an impressionable teenager as he falls under the spell of a charismatic serial killer and gets hopelessly drawn into a vicious cycle of violence and murder. Single mother Elizabeth Harvey (Louise Harris) lives in a cramped house in the northern suburbs of Adelaide with her four young sons. When Elizabeth's current boyfriend reveals himself to be a pedophile, charismatic newcomer John Bunting (Daniel Henshall) drives him out of the neighborhood while laying on the charm, and in the process he captures the attention of her teenage son Jamie (Lucas Pittaway). But as Jamie gets closer to John, he learns that the amiable stranger's quick smile masks a dark secret. 
Wiki info: 
Snowtown, known as "The Snowtown Murders" in the US, is a 2011 Australian film about the Snowtown murders directed by Justin Kurzel and written by Shaun Grant.
In the poor Adelaide suburb of Salisbury North, Jamie (Lucas Pittaway), lives with his distressed mother, Elizabeth (Louise Harris) and his brothers -- including Troy (Anthony Groves), who rapes Jamie. One day his mother's boyfriend takes indecent photographs of the boys. When the police are reluctant to intervene, Elizabeth is contacted by Barry (Richard Green), a gay man who introduces her to John (Daniel Henshall). John, who despises paedophiles and homosexuals, deals with the boyfriend by continually harassing him until he is forced to leave the town. John begins to assume the role of Jamie's father figure.
Jamie finds himself slowly drawn into John's homophobic and violent tendencies, unable to escape because of his charismatic and intimidating dominance. On one occasion he has Jamie shoot his dog. John meanwhile influences the rest of the neighbourhood with his extremely homophobic views, and separates Barry from his younger boyfriend Robert (Aaron Viergever). Only Troy seems to dislike John. Barry soon disappears, leaving behind only a tape saying that he is going to Queensland.
Shortly afterward, Jamie visits his drug-addicted best friend Gavin (Bob Adriaens) with John, who takes a disliking to Gavin. Later one night John and Robert take Jamie into his garden shed and show him the bodies of Barry and Gavin. Distressed, Jamie lashes out at John but is powerless to resist, and remains under his influence. When John learns that Jamie has been abused by Troy, he and Robert torture Troy. Jamie later kills the brutalized Troy in an act of mercy. Now desensitized, Jamie assists John in carrying out several murders. John and his team dump the bodies in the vault of an abandoned bank in the town of Snowtown.
Jamie is later persuaded by John to lure his half-brother, Dave (Beau Gosling), to look at a computer that is for sale. Jamie drives with him to the town, vaguely conscious of what he is doing, and takes Dave into the building, where he is met by John and Robert. Unaware of what is going on, Dave watches Jamie shut the door of the bank. On 20 May 1999, South Australian Police discovered the remains of eight people stored in barrels in the bank vault of Snowtown, and that the following day John Bunting and Robert Wagner were arrested.

