Iron_Road
Released Year: 2008
Running time: 181
Director: David Wu
Cast: Peter O'Toole,Sam Neill,Luke Macfarlane,Serge Houde,Charlotte Sullivan,Sun Li,Tony Leung Ka Fai,Kenneth Mitchell,
Content: This love story set in the 1880s follows a Chinese girl (Sun Li) who poses as a boy to work on the transcontinental railway, where she falls for the son of the railroad contractor. 
Wiki info: 
Iron Road is a 2009 CanadaChina television miniseries written by Barry Pearson and Raymond Storey and directed by David Wu. Starring Peter O'Toole, Sam Neill, Luke Macfarlane, Charlotte Sullivan and Sun Li, Iron Road chronicles the untold story of Chinese workers who helped to build the Canadian Pacific Railway in the 1880s. The mini-series was filmed in the Kamloops, B.C. area with many local actors.
Iron Road is only the second joint venture to be created under a CanadaChina co-production treaty established in the 1960s. The first was 1989's Bethune: The Making of a Hero.
Iron Road follows the journey of Little Tiger (Sun Li), a child whose quest for her long-lost father takes her from a fireworks factory in China to a remote construction camp in the Rockies. Lured by the myth of 'Gum San' - Gold Mountain - she and her countrymen come to Canada by the thousands to do the back-breaking work of blasting through the mountains to lay track. She soon learns that railroads only bring fortune to the few and that every mile of track is purchased with fear and death. As treachery and prejudice threaten her, Little Tiger must use her wits and courage to fulfill her quest and honour her friends who died in this foreign land.
Little Tiger disguises herself as a man, but develops a crush on the contractor's son, James Nichol. They become friends, him treating her as just "one of the guys." At one point, he takes his clothes off and jumps into a river for a swim, asking her to join him. She declines profusely, but secretly glances at his naked form when he isn't looking. Later, she reveals to him that she is a woman and confesses her attaction. They begin an affair, which continues until disrupted when the Chinese construction foreman dies saving her when her safety rope breakes as she places dynamite charges on a cliff. It is discovered that the foreman is actually the father she has been looking for and that the rope had been sabotaged deliberately. Learning that her father's last wish was to have his ashes returned to China, she decides to leave the railway camp to do so. James wants to leave Canada with her so they can spend their lives together, but she refuses because they are from different worlds and she fears the "social implications". Interracial or inter ethnic relationships was generally discouraged at the time.
Principal photography was shot in Hengdian World Studios (China) and in British Columbia, Canada. The Canadian shoot locations started in the Thompson Country and ended in the Okanagan, from Kamloops to Kelowna.
Authentic wood trestle bridges built by the Canadian Pacific Railway during the Gold Rush of the early 1900s were used for film locations.
A wood-fired, steam-driven locomotive was brought in, and a section of actual railway was used, which was discontinued from service during the shoot.
The background performers cast as immigrant laborers in the Canadian shoot were mostly Asian from Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. An additional performer's fee was offered to those who were willing to shave their heads for an authentic period look. Professional hairstylists were employed to hand costume the traditional Chinese long hair braid.

