Warriors_of_the_Rainbow:_Seediq_Bale
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 150
Director: Wei Te-sheng
Cast: 
Content: A man rises up to lead his people in a brave and risky struggle for freedom in this epic-scale historical drama. Mouna Rudo (Ching-tai Lin) was born and raised among the Seediq people, an indigenous tribe in Taiwan, and as he grew to be a man he became a member of the Seediq Bale, a courageous band of native warriors. However, Rudo's way of life is threatened under the yoke of occupying forces from Japan, who took over the nation in 1895. As Rudo sees the traditions and honor of his people stripped away, he realizes the time has come to fight back, and in 1930 he brings together a group of former Seediq Bale soldiers, many of whom have been reduced to infighting, and molds them into a revolutionary army. Rudo and his comrades make their stand when they confront Japanese occupation troops at a youth athletic event, leading to a violent confrontation between the Seediq forces and their oppressors. Written and directed by Wei Te-Sheng, Saideke Balai (aka Warriors of the Rainbow: Seediq Bale) was the most expensive film ever produced in Taiwan at the time of its release; it debuted in Taiwan in a two-part, four-hour edition, while a 150-minute cut for international distribution was screened at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
Warriors of the Rainbow: Seediq Bale (Chinese: 賽德克•巴萊; pinyin: Sàidekè Balai; Seediq: &#160;Seediq Bale&#160;(help·info); literally Real Seediq or Real Men) is a 2011 Taiwanese historical drama epic film directed by Wei Te-Sheng and produced by John Woo, based on Wushe Incident in central Taiwan in 1930.
The film is divided into two parts - the full versions in Taiwan, the part 1 is called "太陽旗" (The Sun Flag), and the part 2 is called "彩虹橋" (The Rainbow Bridge), both running at a total of up to four and half hours.
The film was shown in competition at the 68th Venice International Film Festival and was selected as a contender for nomination for the 84th Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film in 2011 and was one of nine films shortlisted to advance to the next round of voting for nomination. But the original two parts are combined into the single international cut version; its running time is two-and-half hours.
The film is the most expensive production in Taiwanese cinema history. The film has also been compared to the 1995 film Braveheart by Mel Gibson and The Last of the Mohicans by the media in Taiwan.
The film Seediq Bale depicts the Wushe Incident, which occurred near Qilai Mountain of Taiwan under Japanese rule. Mona Rudao, a chief of Mahebu village of Seediq people, led warriors fighting against the Japanese.
The film begins with a hunt by a mountain river in Taiwan. Two Bunun men are hunting a boar, but they are attacked by a group led by young Mona Rudao of Seediq people. Mona Rudao invades the territory, kills one of them and takes away the boar.
In 1895, Treaty of Shimonoseki (Treaty of Maguan) is signed between China and Japan, and Taiwan is ceded to Japan. Japanese invasion of Taiwan ends with Japan defeating Han Chinese resistance. Japanese military officials see the natives as an obstacle to the resources of Taiwan. Later a team of Japanese soldiers is attacked by natives. The attack led to a battle between Japanese and natives including Mona Rudao on a cliff trail. On his way to trade with Han Chinese off the mountain, Mona Rudao also feuds with Temu Walis, a Seediq young man from Toda group. The Japanese ban people from trading with Mona Rudao, and collaborate with a group of Bunun to get Mona Rudao's men drunk and ambush them when they are asleep. After some battles, Rudao Luhe, Mona Rudao's father, is injured. Their village, Mahebu, and neighboring villages are under the control of the Japanese.
Since then, some 20 years have passed. Mahebu and other villages are forced to abolish the custom of keeping the heads they have hunted. Men are subject to low-wage logging and kept from holding guns and from traditional animal and human hunting; whereas women work in houses of the Japanese and give up the traditional weaving work; and children including the boy Pawan Nawi attend school in Wushe village. Men buy alcohol and medicines from a grocery, and the Han Chinese owner let them buy things on account. Above all, they are forbidden to tattoo their faces. The tattoo is believed to be the requirement for Seediq people to "go to the other side across the Rainbow Bridge" after death. There are also young people such as Dakis Nomin, Dakis Nawi, Obing Nawi and Obing Tadao, who adopt Japanese names, education and life style and attempt to work and live among Japanese. The Japanese, except a few, are not aware of the tension.
In late autumn of 1930, the village of Mona Rudao holds a wedding for a young couple. Mona Rudao goes hunting for the wedding and quarrels for hunting ground with Temu Walis, who is hunting with Japanese policeman Kojima Genji and his son. At the wedding, Yoshimura, a newly appointed and nervous Japanese policeman, inspects the village. Mona Rudao's first son, Tado Mona, offers to share his homebrewed millet wine with Yoshimura, but Yoshimura considers the beer unsanitary as it is fermented with saliva. Tado Mona's hands are also covered in blood from the animal he has just slaughtered. A fight with Tado Mona and his brother Baso Mona ensues. The fight is stopped, but Yoshimura fears for his life and threatens to punish the whole village. Young men, including Piho Sapo from Hogo village, see the punishment unacceptable and urge Mona Rudao to start war with the Japanese. Mona Rudao tells them that it is impossible to win. But Mona Rudao also sees the war as necessary and decides to fight.
In a few days Mona Rudao calls on villages with pacts to join force. They schedule to attack the Japanese on October 27, when Japanese will attend a sports game (in memory of Prince Kitashirakawa Yoshihisa) and gather on the schoolyard of the Wushe Village. The women, including Mona Rudao's first daughter, Mahung Mona, know the men are planning for a war and are sad.
Dakis Nomin, a young man who adopted the Japanese name Hanaoka Ichiro and became a police officer, notices that Mona Rudao is preparing for war. He comes to a waterfall and tries to persuade Mona Rudao not to start the war, instead Mona Rudao persuades him to collaborate. After Dakis Nomin leaves, Mona Rudao sings with the ghost of Rudao Luhe and determines to start the war. In the night before, the natives attack the police outposts. Mona Rudao then rallies young men from village to village, and at last chief Tadao Nogan of Hogo village agrees to join Mona Rudao.
On October 27 the attack takes place as scheduled. All Japanese men, women and children are killed. Pawan Nawi and other boys kill their Japanese teacher and his family. Obing Nawi, a woman who wears Japanese clothes, is spared only because her husband Dakis Nomin covers her with a native clothing. Obing Tadao, who is daughter of chief Tadao Nogan and who also wears Japanese clothes, survives by hiding in a storage room. Han people such as the grocer are spared. Native people attack a police station and take the guns. One Japanese police officer escapes and tells the outside world about the attack. The film ends with Mona Rudao sitting in the schoolyard which is full of bodies.
The second film follows the attack on the school. The colonial government sees the uprising as a major crisis, and sends Major General Kamada Yahiko leading 3000 police and soldiers to fight the 300 men on Mona Rudao’s side. The Japanese use machine guns and airplanes but cannot win the battles in the mountains. Pawan Nawi and other boys earn their face tattoos. In a woods some people begin to commit suicide. Dakis Nomin, his wife Obing Nawi and young man Dakis Nawi, who adopted Japanese names and lifestyle, die with ambivalence. The two young men leave their message written on the wall.
General Kamada is furious with the stalemate and orders to use the illegal poison gas bomb. On the other hand, Kojima Genji, an enraged policeman, sets bounty on men, women and children in Mona Rudao's village, and orders Temu Walis and his men to fight Mona Rudao.
The battle turns against Mona Rudao's side. Many are lost to poison gas and Temu Walis' men. Mona Rudao's people lose the village to the Japanese and other natives and retreat to caves. Pawan Nawi and the boys feel desperate and ask to fight side by side with Mona Rudao. Mona Rudao asks them to recite their creation story in which the first man and first woman are formed from a tree that is half stone half wood.
In the retreat the women kill the children then hang themselves on trees to conserve food for the warriors. Piho Sapo of Hogo village also helped his injured relative, Piho Walis, to hang himself. Temu Walis is shaken when he sees the hanged women, and claims that he fights for his own sake not for Kojima.
Mona Rudao and his men launched a desperate attack on the Japanese force occupying the Mahebu village. Baso Mona, Mona Rudao’s son, is injured and asks his brother to kill him. Pawan Nawi and the boys die fighting. Meanwhile in a river, Temu Walis and his men are ambushed by Piho Sapo and other men. In his illusion, Temu Walis thinks he is fighting young Mona Rudao before he dies.
When Mona Rudao sees the fight is near the end, he gives leadership to his son Tado Mona, and returns to his wife and children (the movie implies two versions of the story, one is that Mona Rudao shot his wife, the other is that the wife hanged herself ). Some people of the village surrender and survive. Mahung Mona, daughter of Mona Rudao, is resuscitated by the Japanese, and is sent to offer Tado Mona's men wine and a chance to surrender. The men take the wine, and sing and dance with the women, but refuse to surrender. Later they hang themselves in woods. Piho Sapo is captured and tortured to death. The war ends, and even Kamada is impressed by his enemy's spirit. Natives present and identify heads of the dead to Japanese for rewards, and it is shown that in the battle they feud with each other even further. The surviving people of the villages that rebel are removed from their homes. Mona Rudao is missing, and a native hunter is led by a bird to find his body. The hunter then sees Mona Rudao and his people following the Seediq legend to cross the rainbow bridge. The film ends with a scene of several natives telling their creation story.

