Little_White_Lies
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 154
Director: Guillaume Canet
Cast: François Cluzet,Marion Cotillard,Benoît Magimel,Gilles Lellouche,Jean Dujardin,Laurent Lafitte,Valerie Bonneton,Pascale Arbillot,
Content: A handful of old friends make some unexpected discoveries about one another in this comedy-drama from French writer and director Guillaume Canet. Eight pals who are settling into middle age have observed an annual tradition for years in which they get together to enjoy some vacation time. However, fate puts a damper on this year's gathering when one of the group, Ludo (Jean Dujardin), ends up in the hospital after an auto accident. His friends decide to go away together anyway, but Ludo's troubles portend a week of difficult feelings and awkward situations. Max (Francois Cluzet), who is paying host this year at his summer home, is startled by a declaration of love from Vincent (Benoit Magimel), which comes as an unwelcome surprise to the married and very straight Max. Meanwhile, Marie (Marion Cotillard), Eric (Gilles Lellouche), and Antoine (Laurent Lafitte) are all dealing with various forms of romantic disappointment, and seemingly everyone has a skeleton in the closet that he or she is hiding from the group. Les Petits Mouchoirs (aka Little White Lies) received its world premiere at the 2010 Toronto International Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
Little White Lies is a 2010 French comedy-drama film written and directed by Guillaume Canet, starring an ensemble cast of François Cluzet, Marion Cotillard, Benoît Magimel, Gilles Lellouche, Jean Dujardin, Laurent Lafitte, Valerie Bonneton and Pascale Arbillot. The original French title is Les petits mouchoirs, which means "the small handkerchiefs" (see explanation below). The film was released in France on 20 October 2010.
The French title Les petits mouchoirs refers to a French expression le mettre dans la poche avec le mouchoir par dessus, which means "to put something in your pocket with your handkerchief on top of it," in other words to keep something hidden, try to forget about it, not want to think about it — fairly close to the idea behind the English expression "a white lie."
In a Parisian nightclub, party man Ludo (Jean Dujardin) takes off late at night on his scooter, where he's blindsided by a truck. Lying between life and death in the hospital, Ludo is visited by his band of longtime pals, who decide that the gruesome crash should not prevent them from embarking on their coveted summer holidays.
Prior to the trip, another major problem arises when one of the friends, osteopath Vincent (Benoît Magimel), confesses his attraction to nervous-wreck restaurateur Max (François Cluzet); their initial tête-à-tête is one of the film's comic highlights. Both are married, and Max clearly isn't game, so when they arrive later with their families at his pristine seaside cottage, tensions are sky-high. The group's stress level is further goosed by pot-smoking rebel Marie (Marion Cotillard), lovesick actor Eric (Gilles Lellouche) and the even more lovesick Antoine (Laurent Lafitte), all of whom are suffering from failed or failing relationships.

