The_Deep_Blue_Sea
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 98
Director: Terence Davies
Cast: Rachel Weisz,Tom Hiddleston,Simon Russell Beale,Harry Hadden-Paton,Ann Mitchell,Sarah Kants,Barbara Jefford,Oliver Ford Davies,
Content: One of Terence Rattigan's most celebrated plays is given a new screen adaptation in this drama written and directed by Terence Davies. Hester Page (Rachel Weisz) is rescued in the midst of a suicide attempt by her landlady Mrs. Elton (Ann Mitchell) when she smells gas. As those around her ponder why a beautiful woman would choose such a fate, we learn that Hester is not really Hester at all -- she's actually Lady Collyer, the wife of well-known and respected judge Sir William Collyer (Simon Russell Beale). However, Lady Collyer has never known love or satisfaction in her marriage, and she fell into an affair with Freddie Page (Tom Hiddleston), a former RAF pilot. Lady Collyer has become hopelessly infatuated with Freddie, leaving her husband and living with Freddie under an assumed identity. But the woman who now calls herself Hester soon discovers she loves Freddie far more than he loves her, and between his drinking and neglect for her, it seems she's given up her old life for one that has no future. This marks the second time The Deep Blue Sea has been brought to the screen; Vivien Leigh starred in the 1955 version directed by Anatole Litvak. 
Wiki info: 
The Deep Blue Sea is a 2011 British-American romantic drama film directed by Terence Davies and starring Rachel Weisz, Tom Hiddleston, and Simon Russell Beale. It is an adaptation of the 1952 Terence Rattigan play of the same name about the wife of a judge who engages in an affair with a former RAF pilot. This film version is funded by the UK Film Council and Film4, produced by Sean O'Connor and Kate Ogborn.
Filming began in late 2010 and it was released in the United Kingdom in 2011, the year of Rattigan's centenary. It was released in the United States in 2012 by distributor Music Box Films.
In 1950, Hester Collyer, the younger wife of High Court judge Sir William Collyer, has embarked on a passionate affair with Freddie Page, a handsome young former RAF pilot troubled by his memories of the Second World War. Freddie throws Hester's life in turmoil, as their erotic relationship leaves her emotionally stranded and physically isolated. For Freddie, that tumultuous mix of fear and excitement that was once in his life seems to be no longer present.
The majority of the film takes place during one day in Hester's flat, a day on which she has decided to commit suicide. Her attempt fails and as she recovers, the story of her affair and her married life is played out in a mosaic of short and sporadic flashbacks. We soon discover the constraints of Hester's comfortable marriage, which is affectionate but without sexual passion.
As Hester's affair is discovered she leaves her life of comparative luxury and moves into a small dingy London flat with Freddie. Hester's new lover has awakened her sexuality, but the reckless, thrill-seeking Freddie can never give her the love and stability that her husband gave her. Yet to return to a life without passion would be unbearable. The film takes its title from her dilemma of being caught between the Devil and the deep blue sea – two equally undesirable situations.

