The_Flowers_of_War
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 142
Director: Zhang Yimou
Cast: Christian Bale,Ni Ni,Zhang Xinyi,Tong Dawei,Atsuro Watabe,Shigeo Kobayashi,Cao Kefan,Huang Tianyuan,Han Xiting,Zhang Doudou,Yuan Yangchunzi,Sun Jia,Li Yuemin,Bai Xue,Takashi Yamanaka,Paul Schneider,
Content: American John Miller (Christian Bale) seeks sanctuary in a Chinese cathedral during the 1937 Nanking Massacre, hiding out from Japanese Imperial forces alongside courtesans and frightened schoolgirls as a shocking crime against humanity unfolds just outside. 
Wiki info: 
The Flowers of War (simplified Chinese: 金陵十三钗; traditional Chinese: 金陵十三釵; pinyin: Jīnlíng Shísān Chāi), previously titled Nanjing Heroes and 13 Flowers of Nanjing, is a 2011 Chinese historical drama war film directed by Zhang Yimou, starring Christian Bale, Ni Ni, Zhang Xinyi, Tong Dawei, Atsuro Watabe, Shigeo Kobayashi and Cao Kefan. It is set in 1937, Nanking, China, during the "Rape of Nanking", at the time of the Second Sino-Japanese War. A group of escapees, finding sanctuary in a church compound, try to survive the plight and persecution brought on by the violent invasion of the city.
It was selected as the Chinese entry for Best Foreign Language Film at the 84th Academy Awards, but did not make the final shortlist. It also received a nomination for the 69th Golden Globe Awards. The 6th Asian Film Awards presented The Flowers of War with several individual nominations, including Best Film.
The film's North American distribution rights were acquired by Wrekin Hill Entertainment, in association with Row 1 Productions, leading to a limited release in New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco for late December 2011, and expanding into the following year. Limited release for Washington, D.C., Hawaii, and Virginia commenced on January 20, 2012.
In 1937, Nanking stands at the forefront of a war between China and Japan. As the invading Japanese Imperial Army overruns China's capital city, desperate civilians seek refuge behind the nominally protective walls of a western Roman Catholic cathedral. Here, John Miller (Bale), an American mortician on a task to bury the head priest of the convent schoolgirls, joined by the group of innocent schoolgirls and fourteen flamboyant prostitutes. Pretending to be a priest, Miller tries to keep the girls safe while trying to work on the convent truck to use for an escape.
After an incident when Japanese forces assault the cathedral (who are then killed by a lone surviving Chinese officer), Japanese Colonel Hasegawa (Watabe) finally promises to protect the convent by placing guards in front of the gate, and requests that the girls sing a choral for him. After the performance, he hands Miller an official invitation for the girls to sing at the Japanese Army's victory celebration. Fearing for their safety (especially since the guards' main concern seems to be not letting any of the girls leave the compound), Miller declines. Hasegawa informs him that it is not a request, but an order and that the girls are going to be picked up the next day. Before they leave, the Japanese soldiers count the girls and erroneously include one of the prostitutes (who has strayed from the cellar looking for her cat), totalling 13.
After the girls attempt suicide by threatening to jump off the cathedral tower, the prostitutes, induced by their de facto leader Yu Mo (Ni), decide to protect the girls by meeting the Japanese on their behalf. As there are only twelve of them, the former convent priest's adopted son volunteers as well. Miller initially opposes their self-sacrificing decision, but ultimately assists in disguising them, using his skills as a mortician.
The next day, the 13 are led away by the unsuspecting Japanese soldiers. After they have left, Miller hides the convent girls on the truck he repaired. Using a single-person permit Mr. Meng was able to obtain, he drives out of the town. In the last scene, the truck is seen driving on a deserted highway in heading west, away from the advancing Japanese army, towards safety. It remains unknown the fate of the women, who, apparently, sacrificed themselves for the students' freedom.

