Tristana
Released Year: 1970
Running time: 99
Director: Luis Buñuel
Cast: Catherine Deneuve,Fernando Rey,Franco Nero,Lola Gaos,Antonio Casas,Jesús Fernandez,Denise Menace,Vicente Solar,Jose Calvo,Fernando Cebrian,
Content: Luis Buñuel's Tristana is a surreal criticism of Catholicism and the modern world, told through the story of the title character, who is portrayed by Catherine Deneuve. Tristana is a young Spanish woman left to the care of Don Lope (Fernando Rey), the protective but impoverished aristocrat. Don sells his possessions to avoid manual labor and champions the causes of the dispossessed and downtrodden of society. He takes advantage of the vulnerable Tristana, who leaves him when she falls in love with Horacio (Franco Nero). Unable to commit to him, she returns to Don Lope when she falls ill. He asks for her hand in marriage, and she accepts after losing her leg to cancer. She chooses to remain in a passionless union rather than be subject to the harsh realities of a society that refuses to change to the needs of women. Taken from the novel by celebrated author Benito Perez Galdos, the film -- wherein director Buñuel takes his usual jabs at religion and politics --  is a tribute to the author on the 50th anniversary of his death. 
Wiki info: 
Tristana is a 1970 Spanish film directed by Luis Buñuel. Based on the eponymous novel by Benito Perez Galdós, it stars Catherine Deneuve and Fernando Rey and was shot in Toledo, Spain. The voices of French actress Catherine Deneuve and Italian actor Franco Nero were dubbed to Spanish. Tristana is a Spanish-Franco-Italian co-production.
Tristana is an orphan adopted by nobleman don Lope Garrido. Don Lope falls in love with her and thus treats her as daughter and wife from the age of 19. But, by age 21 Tristana starts finding her voice, to demand to study music, art and other subjects with which she wishes to become independent. She meets the young artist Horacio Díaz, falls in love, and eventually leaves Toledo to live with him. When she falls ill, she returns to don Lope. The illness results in her losing a leg, which changes her prospects; here, the film substantially varies from the novel.
Don Lope inherits money from his sister, Tristana eventually marries him, and, when don Lope is ill, Tristana finishes him off by feigning calling the doctor and opening the window to the winter cold.
In the novel she resignedly marries him in order for don Lope to receive his inheritance. Also different from the novel is Saturno's increased role (barely mentioned in the novel), but in the film is Tristana's third love interest.

