Storage_24
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 87
Director: Johannes Roberts
Cast: Noel Clarke ,Colin O'Donoghue ,Antonia Campbell-Hughes ,Laura Haddock ,Jamie Thomas King ,Alex Price ,Ned Dennehy ,Geoff Bell ,Ruth Gemmell ,Davie Fairbanks ,
Content: Four unsuspecting Londoners find themselves stranded at a storage facility and stalked by an otherworldly predator in this independent sci-fi horror opus from director Johannes Roberts (F, Forest of the Damned). When an Air Force cargo plane carrying a mysterious cache crashes in the heart of the London, the entire city is placed in quarantine. Meanwhile, heartbroken Charlie (Noel Clarke) and his best mate Mark (Colin O'Donoghue) are en route to the local storage facility to gather up some personal items following a bitter break up between Charlie and Shelley (Antonia Campbell-Hughes). Upon arriving, Charlie and Mark are greeted by an electrician who's working to open the front gate following a power outage. Eventually they manage to get in, only to find Shelley sorting through the unit with help from Nikki (Laura Haddock) and Chris (Jamie Thomas King). Later, as the lights in the storage facility flicker on and off, the foursome realize they are trapped inside with a killer creature of unknown origin. With the help of eccentric divorcee David (Ned Dennehy), who has recently moved into his unit to escape the wrath of his crazy ex-wife, the terrified group realizes that their only hope for survival is to find a means of escaping a building designed specifically to keep its treasured contents completely secure. 
Wiki info: 
Storage 24 is a 2012 British sci-fihorror film, directed by Johannes Roberts.
On board a military plane, a disaster occurs and the aircraft crashes into Greater London, leaving its highly classified contents strewn across the city. Completely unaware that the city is in total lockdown, four people find themselves trapped inside a giant disused warehouse. As they try to escape, they discover they are being stalked by something not of this Earth...

