Death_Race:_Inferno
Released Year: 2013
Running time: 106
Director: Roel Reiné
Cast: Luke Goss,Danny Trejo,Ving Rhames,Dougray Scott,Tanit Phoenix,Robin Shou,Fred Koehler,
Content: The world's deadliest race moves to South Africa in this sun-scorched, high-octane sequel that finds champion driver Frankenstein competing for his own freedom, and the freedom of his pit crew. Now a major celebrity thanks for his formidable driving skills, Frankenstein (Luke Goss) learns that his latest opponents will do anything to win as they speed across the Kalahari Desert, destroying anything and everything in their path. Meanwhile, behind-the-scenes, the powers that be conspire to ensure that Frankenstein never reaches the finish line. With his life on the line and speedometer in the red, the notorious masked racer must now outsmart the ones who would see him dead, and outrun the drivers who would carry out their deadly bidding. Dougray Scott, Danny Trejo, and Ving Rhames co-star. 
Wiki info: 
Death Race 3: Inferno (also called Death Race 3 and Death Race: Inferno) is an action film sequel to Death Race 2 that was released as straight to video on January 22, 2013. Region 2 DVD released on 4 February 2013 in the United Kingdom.
Death Race owner Weyland has been forced to sell the rights to Niles York, a British billionaire who acquired the rights by hostile takeover. York reveals he intends to relocate Death Race to the deserts of Africa. Before leaving, Weyland arranges Lucas to have surgery to heal the infected and deadly scars on his face sustained from the previous film Death Race 2. With Carl Lucas, aka Frankenstein, one win away from gaining his freedom, York coaches Lucas to lose his races and threatens his life if he fails to comply.
Before his first race, Lucas engages in a fist fight with other racers and his mask is knocked off in the middle of the fight, revealing to his crew he actually didn't die in the previous film. Before the first race, all of the female navigators had to participate in a Death Match "Navigator Wars" now hosted and produced by Satana. Contestants to be chosen are the top 10 survivors, with Katrina among those who survived. Before the first race, all racers receive shots with GPS locators so the producer will know where all the racers are at all times and so they can be killed if they attempt to escape. During the first race, it is revealed that racing in the deserts of Africa has different variables than racing in prison. Racers can't go as fast and more focus should be spent on handling, in addition to the hostile locals. 11 racers are supposed to take the start, but one jumps the start and is chased by the missile tracker. Two die in the first sector (the racer who jumped at the start, and then Joker). Frankenstein ends up losing his first race by a hair to "Razor".
After the race, Katrina tells Lucas they can't have a relationship as they previously had. Another fight ensues after the first race and Goldberg is cut in the scuffle. The show's surgeon makes advances to Goldberg and the two establish a relationship. In order to make Katrina jealous, the producer Satana orders Psycho's navigator to have sex with Lucas, who seems to refuse the offer. Satana and York grow suspicious that Lucas is "up to something" due to his non-rebellious attitude to being forced to lose. Lucas then explains to his team mates his deal with York to lose and says instead he made a "new deal".
At the end of race 2, Goldberg is caught in an explosion caused by stray bullets from local hostile war lords, and is pronounced dead. After the race, York reminds Lucas he is to lose his next race to 14K or he will torture him and his love interest Katrina. Satana then discovers York wishes to replace her as producer and remove her from Death Race so he can assume complete control. Before the next race, Katrina confesses her love to Lucas, and Lucas admits he did not have sex with the other navigator when he had the chance to do so. After the final race begins, York attempts to kill Lucas at the end of the race with a missile aimed at his locater chip. 14K shoots flares to send the missile off course to save Lucas's life, effectively returning the "life for a life" favor from the previous film when Lucas saved 14K's life from another racer.
At the end of the race, Lucas holds a commanding lead and kills many of the Death Race guards along the way, vowing to kill York. However, Lucas allows 14K to pass him and then speeds to York. As York attempts to flee, Satana handcuffs him to the table for attempting to replace her. Lucas crashes his car into the room and explodes, engulfing the room in flames. Initially, it is insinuated that everyone except Lucas perished in the crash. However, it is revealed that Lucas and Katrina escaped unharmed, and framed the now unrecognizable York as Lucas aka Frankenstein. In order to assert York is Frankenstein, Lists confirms it is him, along with the show's surgeon who claims the implanted chip is that of Lucas's. It is then revealed that Lucas's "new deal" he made during the meeting with Weyland in the beginning of the film was to fake Goldbergs death; the surgeon (Goldberg's love interest) falsely pronounced him dead, and after the crash pronounces York, and Katrina as dead and Lucas as the sole survivor. Since York is officially dead, Weyland regains control of Death Race and grants Lucas, Katrina, Lists, and Goldberg their freedom, but Lists elects to stay behind out of instinct. Weyland pays Lucas a substantial amount of money for his help in regaining control of Death Race, and York is framed and forced to become the new Frankenstein.

