The_Paperboy
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 107
Director: Lee Daniels
Cast: Matthew McConaughey,Zac Efron,David Oyelowo,Macy Gray,John Cusack,Nicole Kidman,Scott Glenn,Nikolette Noel,Ned Bellamy,
Content: A man (John Cusack) convicted of killing a seedy sheriff is given a new life when a female pen pal (Nicole Kidman) enlists the aid of two journalists to try and get him off death row. Precious' Lee Daniels adapts Pete Dexter's novel. 
Wiki info: 
The Paperboy is a 2012 American thriller film starring Matthew McConaughey, Zac Efron, John Cusack, and Nicole Kidman. Directed by Lee Daniels, it is based on the 1995 novel The Paperboy by American author Pete Dexter. The film competed for the Palme d'Or at the 2012 Cannes Film Festival.
An idealistic reporter and his brother, Ward Jansen and Jack Jansen, investigate the events surrounding a murder in an effort to exonerate a man on death row, Hillary van Wetter. van Wetter has been jailed for the murder of an unscrupulous local sheriff, Thurmond Call. Call had previously stomped van Wetter's handcuffed cousin to death. van Wetter is now on death row and awaiting execution. The Jansens are helped by Ward's colleague, Englishman Yardley Acheman, and Charlotte Bless, a woman whom van Wetter has never met but who has fallen in love with him and is determined that he should be released and that they should marry. In prison van Wetter regularly receives correspondence from her.
Charlotte tries to prove van Wetter's innocence by requesting the help of Ward and Yardley, who are both investigative reporters from the Miami Times and are hungry for a salacious story. Ward returns to his hometown to investigate the case but has mixed feelings about returning home to his estranged father, and his father's new girlfriend, Nancy, who distribute the Miami Times in their town. The Jansen brothers dislike their father's new girlfriend. Jack is the paperboy after having been expelled from college for vandalism. His only real friend is the family maid, Anita, who had brought him and Ward up after their mother had left.
The evidence against van Wetter is inconsistent and the writers are confident that if they can expose van Wetter as a victim of redneck justice then their story will benefit them greatly. Meanwhile, Jack has fallen in love with Charlotte who only desires van Wetter. Anita realizes that Jack can never stop thinking of Charlotte as she is his first love. One day, with some information from van Wetter, the Jansens travel to the swamp to meet van Wetter's uncle Tyree, who has evidence that van Wetter did not commit the crime.
Ward is revealed to be a closet homosexual when he approaches a pair of sadistic men, who rape and torture him. During Ward's time in the hospital, Yardley prints the news article despite not getting all the facts right. Jack tries to convince Yardley to stop, but instead discovers that Yardley is actually American, having pretended to be English because local black men could not be successful unless they lied about their backgrounds. Yardley had also given Ward sexual favors in return for position in the paper.
van Wetter is eventually released from prison and takes Charlotte away to the swamp to live with him. She is unhappy and sends a letter to Jack telling how much she hates her new life. During their father's wedding, a recently recovered Ward and Jack go to save Charlotte. However, the escape plan is flawed and Charlotte and Ward are killed by van Wetter, who is then arrested for their murder and executed on the electric chair as planned originally. Towards the end of the story, Anita reveals that Jack never forgot his first love.

