Luna_Park
Released Year: 2013
Running time: 72
Director: Steven Vasquez
Cast: Oleg Borisov – Naoum Kheifitz,Andrei Gutin – Andrei Leonov,Natalya Yegorova - Aliona,Nonna Mordyukova - Aunt,Mikhail Golubovich - Mute Guy,Aleksandr Feklistov - Boris Ivanovich,Tatyana Lebedkova - Prostitute,Aleksandr Savin - Saniok,Rita Gladunko - Dairy Women,Kirill Pushkov - Gigan,
Content: A man tasked with watching the troubled younger brother of a prominent gay porn producer gradually begins falling for his handsome young charge. When the stars of a major gay porn company have a little down time, they like to unwind in Luna Park - a luxurious apartment building with all of the creature comforts. The building is owned by actress-turned-producer Alexia, and managed by her mute younger brother Christi, who has taken to peeping on the guests. When Christi gets caught in the act, Alexis recruits her assistant Maxwell to clean up the mess. In time, Maxwell and Christie develop a powerful romantic bond, a bond that is soon threatened by some dark secrets in Alexia's distant past. 
Wiki info: 
Luna Park (Russian: Луна-парк; 1992) is a Franco-Russian produced film. The second feature film of Russian director Pavel Lungin, it depicts the story of a young antisemitic skinhead leader, Andrei Leonov (Andrei Gutin) who is forced to come to terms with the discovery that his father, Naoum Kheifitz (Oleg Borisov) is of Jewish ancestry . The film, of the churnekha (Russian: чернуха, roughly "black stuff"), genre, follows Andrei as he explores his heritage and the relationship he begins with his father.
Luna Park was shown at the Toronto Film Festival on September&#160;13,&#160;1992&#160;(1992-09-13), and was released in New York in January 1994.
It was nominated for the Palme d'Or at the 1992 Cannes Film Festival. The composer Isaak Schwarz won a Nika Award from the Russian Academy of Cinema Arts and Sciences for the film's music.
Set in a post-perestroika, post-Soviet Moscow, "Luna Park" follows the main character Andrei Leonov (Andrei Guntin) in his struggles to figure out who he is. At the beginning of the film, we see him as a young antisemitic skinhead bodybuilding leader of a group called "The Cleaners" who are set on purging Russia of anyone they deem unsuitable to the Russian bloodline, including, Jews, homosexuals, foreigners and mentally challenged individuals. The opening scene depicts a crowd of skinheads waving Russian flags and fighting a gang of bikers who they believed have succumbed to western influence and ideology. "The Cleaners" live in Luna Park, an amusement park, with wild roller coasters, and distorting mirrors and regularly head out into Moscow to cause chaos and destruction.
Having originally believed that his father was a Soviet war hero who died in a military plane crash in Afghanistan, he worships his father as the ideal Russian and strives to emulate him. When during a drunken night of confessions, he discovers that his father is actually a Jewish musician and still alive in Moscow, Andrei's life is turned upside-down, partly out of revulsion from whom he is descended, and partly because he wants to know (and be) with his father, and he must someway reconcile himself with this with discovery.
Andrei's initial reaction of shock is furthered by his mother Aliona (Natalya Yegorova), who demands that he kill his father for the pain that he caused her, when at a young age, his father seduced her (making her pregnant) and then did not cast her as a singer for an important role, which blighted her career after that.
As the movie progresses, Andrei's quest for his father is successful, and we are introduced to Naoum Kheifitz (Oleg Borisov), a once influential Jewish composer and conductor who is now forced to make a living as an entertainer at private parties. Having spent time with his father, and seeing him as a charming, personable, yet impoverished gentle man, Andrei begins to overcome his hatred for Jewish culture. His father is out right accepting of Andrew, and dismisses his anti-Semitism, and proudly shows him off to his eccentric friends. This leads to a gradual change of Andrei's perspective, and he attempts to explain the situation to the members of his gang. They are not as accepting of his father, or of Andrei's Jewish roots, and they ransack Naoum's apartment, hang a young woman they find there, and abduct Naoum, taking him back to Luna Park. Andrei returns to the apartment and is horrified at the sight. He rushes to the park and saves his father, meanwhile the park catches fire, and Aliona chooses to perish with the park then face the reality of Andrei's choice.
The movie conclues with a scene of Andrei and Naoum getting on a train that's traveling to Siberia, under the assumption that they will start a new life together, free from the influence of the gang or the city.

