Breathing
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 94
Director: Karl Markovics
Cast: Thomas Schubert,Karin Lischka,Gerhard Liebmann,Georg Friedrich,Stefan Matousch,Luna Mijovic,
Content: A young man who has developed an awareness of death wants to learn the secret history of his own life in this drama. Nineteen-year-old Roman Kogler (Thomas Schubert) has spent four years in a detention center for teens after being implicated in the death of another boy. Roman is thoughtful but withdrawn, making few friends with his fellow inmates and keeping his distance from the chaos that surrounds him. Roman's parole officer (Gerhard Liebmann) is trying to prepare him for his eventual freedom, and has made several efforts to place him in a work-release program, but Roman has a hard time readjusting to the outside world and getting along with others. Running out of opportunities, Roman is given a position at a mortuary, helping move and prepare recently arrived corpses, and while it doesn't seem to be a job that would agree with anyone, Roman unexpectedly bonds with his stern and sometimes contrary co-workers, and comes to respect the importance of their work. One day, Roman has to help with the body of a middle-aged woman named Kogler, and he begins to wonder if she's the woman who gave him up for adoption when he was an infant. While Roman's research soon confirms the woman was no relation to him, it sparks a keen interest in finding out more about the mother he's never known. Atmen (aka Breathing) was the first directorial credit for respected Austrian actor Karl Markovics; the film received its world premiere at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival as part of the Directors' Fortnight program. 
Wiki info: 
Breathing (German: Atmen) is a 2011 Austrian art house drama film directed and written by Karl Markovics. The film, about a 19-year-old ex-convict who attempts to build a new life amidst his guilt, stars Thomas Schubert, Karin Lischka and Gerhard Liebmann. It was screened at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival. Schubert won Best Actor at the 17th Sarajevo Film Festival for his performance, presented to him by Angelina Jolie.
The film was selected as Austria's submission to the 84th Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film, but it did not make the final shortlist.
Roman Kogler is a 19-year old prisoner in an Austrian juvenile detention centre, imprisoned for killing another teenager. In order to obtain parole, he must prove that he can hold down a job outside the prison. After many failed attempts, he gets a job as an undertaker. His co-workers treat him badly, because he's a convicted criminal, but Roman has to put up with them if he has any chance of getting parole. Every day, he takes the train into Vienna and gets off near a holiday ad that reads: "Dive Into Adventure".
Brought up in an orphanage, Roman is keen to trace his mother. He manages to find out where she lives and follows her into an IKEA store, where he sees her lying, like a corpse, on one of the beds. They later become re-acquainted and he tells her he's a diving instructor in New Zealand. Back at her flat, he asks his mother why she gave him up and she tells him that it was the best thing she did in her life. She later finds out his real occupation as an undertaker. She also confesses to him that the real reason that she gave Roman up was that, when he was a baby, she tried to suffocate him by placing a pillow over his face.
The film ends with Roman being awarded parole and visiting the grave of his teenage victim.

