California_Solo
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 95
Director: Marshall Lewy
Cast: 
Content: A has-been British pop star reluctantly confronts the demons of his past in order to avoid getting deported from the U.S. after being pulled over for drunken driving and seeing a previous drug offense used against him in court. Back in the 1990s, Lachlan MacAldonich (Robert Carlyle) was on top of the world. You could barely turn on a radio without hearing one of his hits, but these days Lachlan maintains a low profile by working on an organic farm in L.A., and reflecting on the untimely deaths of his favorite musicians in his podcast "Flame-Outs." One night, while driving back home following a night of drinking at his favorite bar, Lachlan is arrested on a DUI charge. That compounded with a drug conviction from years prior means that Lachlan may face deportation unless he can convince the judge that his absence would have a negative impact on his family stateside. Desperate, Lachlan soon finds himself compelled to try and repair the failed relationships that have haunted him ever since his music career dried up and his star faded. 
Wiki info: 
California Solo is an American independent feature film written and directed by Marshall Lewy and starring Robert Carlyle. It made its world premiere at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival, and its international premiere at the 2012 Edinburgh Film Festival. The film was acquired by Strand Releasing for the U.S., and was given a limited theatrical release on November 30, 2012.
Robert Carlyle plays "Lachlan", a former Britpop rocker-turned-agricultural worker, who gets caught driving drunk and faces deportation after living in Los Angeles for many years. His efforts to stay in the U.S. force him to confront his past and current demons. The film addresses immigration issues, alcoholism, and personal redemption.
Lewy wrote the part of "Lachlan" with Robert Carlyle in mind. Carlyle has remarked, "It was an easy sell to get me to do it" and he drew inspiration for the character from his friends, the Gallagher brothers of Oasis.
The film shot for 21 days in June 2011 in Leona Valley, Lancaster, Moorpark, and many neighborhoods of Los Angeles, including Silver Lake, Los Feliz, Atwater Village, Sun Valley, Downtown, Highland Park, Hollywood, and Culver City. Its title song was written specifically for the film by Adam Franklin.
"California Solo" is a New York Times Critics Pick. Critics have praised Robert Carlyle's performance, calling it "open and utterly human", "effortlessly engaging", "soulful and layered", and "stunning...perhaps his best since Trainspotting’s Begbie". The Huffington Post called the film a "touching drama" and the Hollywood Reporter called it a "fragile drama with emotional heft."
The film won the Best Narrative Feature and Best Editing awards at the 2012 Woodstock Film Festival. Robert Carlyle won the Outstanding Acting Award at the 2012 Tallgrass Film Festival. Additionally, producer Mynette Louie won the 2013 Independent Spirit Awards' Piaget Producers Award.

