Atlas_Shrugged_Part_II
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 112
Director: John Putch
Cast: Samantha Mathis,Jason Beghe,Esai Morales,Patrick Fabian,Kim Rhodes,Richard T. Jones,D.B. Sweeney,Paul McCrane,John Rubinstein,Robert Picardo,Ray Wise,Diedrich Bader,Bug Hall,Arye Gross,Rex Linn,Larisa Oleynik,Thomas F. Wilson,Teller,Sean Hannity,Juan Williams,Bob Beckel,Tamara Holder,
Content: As an oppressive government attempts to seize control of a world on the brink of collapse, one woman makes a discovery that could put power back into the hands of the people in this sprawling adaptation of Ayn Rand's famous novel. As the economy buckles, unemployment skyrockets and the price of oil reaches an all-time high, the world's greatest minds all begin to disappear without a trace. But just when it seems as if all hope is lost, Taggart Transcontinental Vice President in Charge of Operations Dagny Taggart (Samantha Mathis) discovers a revolutionary motor that can harvest unlimited energy without the need for fossil fuels. But without the inventor to reveal all its secrets, the motor is useless. Now, as a tyrannical government rises, word of the radical new invention begins to spread and Taggart must race to find the one person who knows how to harness its power before it falls into the wrong hands, and all hope is lost. 
Wiki info: 
Atlas Shrugged: Part II (or Atlas Shrugged: Part II: The Strike) is a film based on the novel Atlas Shrugged by Ayn Rand. It is a sequel to the 2011 film Atlas Shrugged: Part I, continuing the story where its predecessor left off.
It was announced on the film's Facebook page on July 4, 2012 and the film was released on October 12, 2012.
The film begins with a flashforward in which Dagny Taggart pilots an airplane in pursuit of another plane. Dagny asks herself, "Who is John Galt?" before apparently crashing into a mountainside.
Eight months earlier, Dagny is trying to understand the abandoned prototype of an advanced motor she and Hank Rearden found. Quentin Daniels, the only capable scientist who has not yet joined a mysterious wave of disappearances, agrees to help her from an abandoned laboratory in Utah.
Dagny's brother James Taggart, president of the family railroad, meets store clerk Cherryl Brooks and brings her to see a pianist, who disappears during his performance, leaving a note asking, "Who is John Galt?" Later, during the wedding of James and Cherryl, Dagny's friend Francisco d'Anconia argues with other guests about whether money is evil, and secretly informs Rearden about a devastating explosion at his copper mine—the next day. Rearden spends that night with his paramour Dagny. Later, he is confronted about the affair by his wife Lillian, who refuses to grant him a divorce in order to maintain her position in society.
Rearden sells his advanced Rearden Metal to Ken Danagger's coal mining company, and refuses to sell it to the government, in defiance of the newly enacted "Fair Share" law that forces businesses to sell to all buyers. The two are charged under the law. Dagny barges into Danagger's office, realizes that he too is about to disappear, and understands that she is close to understanding the force behind the disappearances. At trial, Rearden defends the pursuit of profit and is given only a token penalty by the court when it sees that the crowd supports him. However, the government announces "Directive 10-289", which freezes employment and production, and which requires all patent rights to be gifted to the government. Bureaucrat Wesley Mouch blackmails Rearden into giving up his Rearden Metal patents, using photos of Rearden and Dagny that would damage Dagny's reputation.
Dagny leaves her post at the railroad when her prized John Galt line is disassembled due to lack of business. During her absence, a Taggart Transcontinental train collides with a military train in a tunnel, due largely to political pressure by a passenger and to human error by Dagny's poorly-trained replacement. This impels Dagny back to her job. D'Anconia tries to dissuade her from returning, as he had earlier tried to talk Rearden into leaving his business, but she returns anyway.
Dagny takes a train to Colorado to show her faith in the railway, but its engine fails. The repair technician used to work for 20th Century Motor, which produced the motor Dagny found. He tells Dagny how the need-based reward system in his company failed, and his coworker John Galt left the company to "stop the motor of the world." Dagny calls Daniels, who tells her that he is quitting. Dagny buys a small airplane and flies to Utah to try to dissuade him, but as she is landing, she sees him get into a plane on the airstrip.
After a pursuit in the air—the opening scene of the film—Dagny's plane crashes in a valley hidden by stealth technology. Dagny crawls to the edge of her crashed plane, where she is greeted by John Galt.
After the credits, the movie ends with a quote from the Atlas Shrugged novel.

