360
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 110
Director: Fernando Meirelles
Cast: 
Content: Director Fernando Meirelles (Blindness, The Constant Gardener) teams with screenwriters Peter Morgan and Peter Emmanuel Goldman to expand the scope of Arthur Schnitzler's 1897 play La Ronde, which explored the ways that social boundaries can be shattered by human sexuality. Set in seven cities across the globe, 360 finds a disparate group of characters unknowingly bonded by the sexual choices they make. Consumed by loneliness, a British businessman (Jude Law) ponders a rendezvous with a prostitute. When his colleague catches wind of the plan, blackmail enters the picture. Meanwhile, the businessman's wife (Rachel Weisz) prepares to call it quits with her younger lover; a Brazilian student breaks up with her boyfriend in London and heads back to Rio; a recovering alcoholic (Anthony Hopkins) travels to Phoenix in search of his missing daughter; a freshly paroled sex offender (Ben Foster) struggles to stay composed when propositioned in a Denver airport; and a prominent widower's religious devotion is put to a difficult test. 
Wiki info: 
360 is a 2011 drama film starring Anthony Hopkins, Ben Foster, Rachel Weisz, and Jude Law. The film, directed by Fernando Meirelles, opened the 2011 London Film Festival. Magnolia Pictures released the film on VOD on June 29, 2012 and was released in United States theaters on August 3, 2012.
360 centers on the stories of a group of people from different social backgrounds through their intertwining relationships.
Anna (Gabriela Marcinkova) accompanies her sister, Mirka (Lucia Siposova) in being photographed nude by Rocco (Johannes Krisch). Rocco then persuades Mirka to change her name into a more professional one, to which she chooses Blanca. Anna is hesitant about what Mirka is doing but goes along with it. They return home in a bus to Bratislava where Anna comments on how Mirka should work more on her English. Rocco calls Mirka and tells her she will meet a client named Michael Daly (Jude Law) in Vienna the next day. She then heads to Vienna, with the company of Anna and enters the restaurant of a hotel to meet her client. However, Michael's business partners find out she is a prostitute and start debating loudly whether she has been stood up by her suitor. Michael then pretends to not know her and leaves. He goes to a small restaurant and calls his wife, leaving her multiple affectionate voice messages. Back in his hotel room, he receives a call from his business partner, who informs him that he found out about Michael having ordered the prostitute and blackmails him into accepting his business deal.
An Algerian man (Jamel Debbouze) spies on a woman wearing a red beret since leaving her home and on her way to the airport. It is clear that he has feelings for the mysterious woman but can't express how he feels. The next scene shows him talking to an imam about his feelings for the woman and pursues her despite knowing that she is already married. He then goes to his mosque and asks for advice on what to do about his life.
Rose (Rachel Weisz) strolls around the streets, unaware that a seemingly distraught woman is taking pictures of her. It turns out that Rose is headed to a hotel and meets up with a man named Rui (Juliano Cazarre) she is having an affair with. Although she tells him to end their affair, Rose is still affected by his charm and they soon end up having sex. After the encounter, they part ways where Rui goes back home to his girlfriend but he is soon rocked when he finds out she had left him. He then opens the computer and watches her video, where it turns out that the woman who took pictures of Rose earlier is his girlfriend named Laura (Maria Flor). Meanwhile, at Rose's house, we learn that she is married to Michael Daly, who was also planning of having an affair while being on a business trip in Vienna. Both of them then head out to their daughter's school play that night and tend to her after forgetting her lines. Later in bed, Rose then recalls the moment when Michael left her some voice mails the previous night, saying that he misses her and that he wished she could be there with him. He tells her that his next trip will probably be to Berlin. Rose exclaims that she has never been to Berlin and would love to go.
Sex offender Tyler (Ben Foster) will be released after being imprisoned for six years, and is afraid he's not ready to face life in the outside world due to his temptations. Meanwhile, Laura boards a flight back to Brazil and gets to know an elderly man sitting next to her named John (Anthony Hopkins) who is searching for his missing daughter who ran away. They are both stranded in Denver due to bad weather. Meanwhile, Tyler speaks on the phone with the social worker about his stressful situation outside and how he could not control himself from his attraction. He and Laura bump into each other when Laura inadvertently sits at his table in a restaurant at the airport. However they start a conversation when the drinks she has ordered for her and John are served. Laura seems attracted to Tyler and ends up offering him to stay with her in her hotel room. The intoxicated Laura then makes sexual advances toward him and asks him to kiss her. Instead Tyler controls himself and rebuffs her, locking himself in the bathroom. The next day, John finds Laura who is about to board her connecting flight. They both tell how it was a pleasure meeting one another. Laura hugs John in a daughterly manner, which affects him. John arrives in Phoenix to examine unidentified remains which could be his daughter, but it turns out to be someone else. John later says in a group therapy meeting how he could accept whether or not his daughter is alive and how he is willing to move on and let go. At the same meeting, a foreign woman named Valentina (Dinara Drukarova) also shares her own story, where we learn that she was the same woman the Algerian man spied on back in Paris. She speaks about her husband, Sergei, who is too consumed with his boss, a Russian businessman, to love her anymore. She says that she will plan to divorce him and that she already has someone else she is interested in.
Valentina goes back home to her career-driven Russian husband named Sergei (Vladimir Vdovichenkov) where she informs him that she wants a divorce and how she is interested in someone else, although Sergei doesn't seem to comply with her decision. Sergei leaves Paris for Vienna while Valentina goes to her job in a dental clinic. It turns out that her boss is the Algerian man. They both have mutual feelings for each other, but Valentina's boss is quite nervous around her, making clumsy mistakes and errors. He then talks to her privately and tells her it would be better if she looked for another job. Valentina is confused and sad, but leaves nonetheless and is seen walking away, without the red beret this time, her boss watching her from the window.
Sergei fetches his boss from the airport while he is being treated harshly. His boss reprimands him when he learns he is learning English and states that it's irrelevant. Mirka and Anna are also riding a bus going to Vienna for another client of Mirka. Sergei chances upon Mirka whom his boss was expecting and tells her to go to his hotel room. While lingering in the city, Anna comes across Sergei when it starts to rain and he lets her in the car. They start to develop a friendly relationship from their mutual love for books and learning English. Anna then persuades the ill-treated Sergei to drive around the city. Back at the hotel, Sergei's boss notices Mirka's phone and notices that she has called for someone. Thinking it is a security operation, he knocks Mirka unconscious and calls Sergei. When Sergei picks up his call, his boss asks him to cover up for him in the hotel. Rocco (who was the person Mirka sent a message to) appears at the hotel room where Sergei tricks his boss into thinking he's at the door when in fact it's Rocco. The boss opens the door and a fight ensues. Sergei then leaves the hotel and picks Anna up and they drive together in the city with his boss's car. Mirka, who gains consciousness after the attack, collects the stash of money the man had promised to pay her.
The film follows the stories of couples and their sexual encounters, and was written by FrostNixon screenwriter Peter Morgan. It is a loose adaptation of La Ronde.
360 has received generally negative reviews from critics, as it currently holds a 25% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 71 reviews. Philip French in The Observer (London) concluded "360 has a gleaming surface and a knowing air, but essentially it reflects the lives of people who spend too much time in planes". Manohla Dargis in The New York Times says "There are moments in "360" that show what the movie might have been... But the overshooting and overediting here suggest Mr. Meirelles, or maybe the producers, were trying to work around this story, instead of with it."

