Life_of_Pi
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 123
Director: Ang Lee
Cast: Piscine Molitor "Pi" Patel,Gautam Belur,Ayush Tandon,Suraj Sharma,Irrfan Khan,Tabu,Adil Hussain,Ravi Patel, Pi's older brother,Ayan Khan,Mohamed Abbas Khaleeli,Vibish Sivakumar,Gerard Depardieu,Po-Chieh Wang,Rafe Spall,Shravanthi Sainath,Andrea Di Stefano,Elie Alouf,
Content: Yann Martel's ponderous adventure novel gets the big-screen treatment with this Fox 2000 adaptation helmed by director Ang Lee. The coming-of-age story surrounds the son of a zookeeper who survives a shipwreck by stowing away on a lifeboat with a zebra, an orangutan, a hyena, and a Bengal tiger by the name of Richard Parker. Suraj Sharma heads up the cast as the young boy, with Gerard Depardieu, Adil Hussain, Irrfan Khan, Rafe Spall, and Bollywood actress Tabu also starring. 
Wiki info: 
Life of Pi is a 2012 American 3D live-actioncomputer-animated adventure drama film based on Yann Martel's 2001 novel of the same name. Directed by Ang Lee, the film is based on an adapted screenplay by David Magee, and stars Suraj Sharma, Irrfan Khan, Gerard Depardieu, Tabu, and Adil Hussain.
The storyline revolves around a 16-year old Indian boy named Piscine Molitor "Pi" Patel, who survives a shipwreck in which his family dies, and is stranded in the Pacific Ocean on a lifeboat with a Bengal tiger named Richard Parker.
The film had its worldwide premiere as the opening film of the 50th New York Film Festival at both the Walter Reade Theater and Alice Tully Hall in New York City on September 28, 2012.
Upon release, Life of Pi became a critical and commercial success, earning over $600 million worldwide. At the 85th Academy Awards it had eleven nominations, including Best Picture, and won four (the most for the evening) including Best Director for Ang Lee. It was also nominated for three Golden Globe Awards which included the Best Picture – Drama and the Best Director and won the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Score.
A novelist has been advised to talk to Pi Patel, a middle-aged Indian immigrant from Pondicherry living in Montreal, Quebec, who has an amazing story to tell. Patel tells the writer that the story “will make you believe in God.”
Pi's father named him Piscine Molitor after a swimming pool in France. As a child he changed his name to "Pi" (the mathematical symbol, π) because he was tired of being called "Pissing Patel". In flashback it was seen that his family owned a zoo, and Pi took great interest in the animals, especially a Bengal tiger named Richard Parker. When Pi tries to feed the tiger in great curiosity, his father runs in and angrily tells him that the tiger is dangerous and not like a human. He forces Pi to witness the tiger killing a goat to prove his point. Pi is raised Hindu and vegetarian, but at 12 years old, he is introduced to Christianity and then Islam, and starts to follow all three religions as he "just wants to love God." His mother supports his desire to grow, but his father, a rationalist, tries to convert him to his own way of thinking ("think rationally").
When Pi is 16, his father decides to move the family to Winnipeg, Manitoba, where he intends to settle and sell the zoo animals. They book passage on a Japanese freighter named Tzimtzum. One night there is a storm; the ship begins to founder while Pi is on deck. He tries to find his family, but a crew member throws him into a lifeboat. Just as the ship falls into the sea, a freed zebra leaps from the ship to land on the boat with him. Pi then watches helplessly as the ship sinks, killing his family and the crew. After the storm, Pi finds himself in the lifeboat with the injured zebra, and is joined by an orangutan. A spotted hyena emerges from the tarp covering half of the boat. The hyena kills the zebra and then the orangutan. Suddenly the tiger Richard Parker emerges from under the tarp, killing the hyena. Richard Parker then takes numerous swipes at Pi, practically running him off the boat; the tiger then devours the bodies of the other animals at night.
Pi gets out biscuits, water rations, and a hand axe and builds a small raft to stay at a safe distance from the tiger. Pi begins fishing and is able to feed the tiger. He also collects rain water for both to drink. When the tiger jumps off to hunt fish, at first Pi wants to let it drown, then he relents and helps it climb back into the boat. At one point, in a nighttime encounter with a breaching whale, Pi loses much of his supplies. After many days at sea, Pi trains the tiger to accept him in the boat. He also realizes that caring for the tiger is keeping him alive.
Weeks later and half dead, they reach a mysterious floating island of edible plants, supporting a mangrove jungle, fresh water pools, and a large population of meerkats. Both Pi and Richard Parker eat and drink freely and regain strength. But at night the island transforms into a hostile environment: the fresh water turns acidic digesting all the dead fish that died in the pools, Richard Parker returns to the lifeboat, the resident meerkats sleep in the trees, the plants are carnivorous. Pi discovers the island's secrets when he finds a human tooth. The next day, Pi and the tiger leave the island.
The lifeboat eventually reaches the coast of Mexico. Pi is crushed that the tiger does not acknowledge him before disappearing into the jungle. Pi is rescued and carried to a hospital, weeping. Insurance agents for the Japanese freighter come to interview him. They do not believe his story and ask what "really" happened. He tells a less fantastic account of sharing the lifeboat with his mother, a Buddhist sailor with a broken leg, and the cook. The cook kills the sailor in order to eat him and use him as bait. In a later struggle, Pi's mother pushes him to safety on a smaller raft, and the cook stabs her as she falls overboard. Later, Pi returns, takes the knife and kills the cook.
In the present day, the novelist notes the parallels between the two stories: the orangutan was Pi's mother, the zebra was the sailor, the hyena was the cook, and Richard Parker, the tiger, was Pi himself. Pi asks him which story the writer prefers, and the writer chooses the one with the tiger because it "is the better story", to which Pi responds, "Thank you. And so it goes with God". Glancing at a copy of the insurance report, the writer sees the agents wrote that Pi somehow survived 227 days at sea with a tiger: the insurance agents had also chosen the more fantastic story.

