The_Sessions
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 95
Director: Ben Lewin
Cast: John Hawkes,Helen Hunt,William H. Macy,Moon Bloodgood,Annika Marks,W. Earl Brown,Blake Lindsley,Adam Arkin,Robin Weigert,Rusty Schwimmer,Rhea Perlman,
Content: A 38-year-old man who has spent most of his life in an iron lung enlists the help of a sexual surrogate in order to lose his virginity in this drama starring Oscar-nominated actor John Hawkes and inspired by the life of poetjournalist Mark O'Brien. With the support of an unconventional priest (William H. Macy) and a devoted team of caretakers, the virginal writer hires a compassionate sex surrogate (Helen Hunt), who finds her life profoundly transformed by their tender sessions. 
Wiki info: 
The Sessions (originally titled The Surrogate) is a 2012 American independent drama film written and directed by Ben Lewin. It is based on an essay by Mark O'Brien, a poet paralyzed from the neck down due to polio, who hired a sex surrogate to lose his virginity. John Hawkes and Helen Hunt star as O'Brien and sex surrogate Cheryl Cohen-Greene, respectively.
The film debuted at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival, where it won the Audience Award (U.S. Dramatic) and a U.S. Dramatic Special Jury Prize for Ensemble Acting. Fox Searchlight Pictures acquired the film's distribution rights and released the film in 2012. The Sessions received highly positive reviews from critics, in particular lauding the performances of Hawkes and Hunt. Hunt was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role at the 85th Academy Awards.
Mark O'Brien is a poet who is forced to live in an iron lung due to complications from polio. Due to his condition, he has never had sex. After unsuccessfully proposing to his caretaker Amanda, and sensing he may be near death, he decides he wants to lose his virginity. After consulting his priest, Father Brendan, he gets in touch with Cheryl Cohen-Greene, a professional sex surrogate. She tells him they will have no more than six sessions together. They begin their sessions, but soon it is clear that they are developing romantic feelings for each other. Cheryl's husband, who loves her deeply, fights to suppress his jealousy, at first witholding a love poem that Mark has sent by mail to Cheryl, which she eventually finds. After much frustration, Mark and Cheryl are able to have mutually satisfying sex, with both having orgasms, but Mark cuts the sessions short. One day sometime later, the power goes out in the building in which Mark lives, causing the iron lung to stop functioning and making it necessary for Mark to be rushed to the hospital. However, he survives and meets Susan, a young woman whom the audience senses he will finally find happiness with. Although it is not specifically stated in the film, he marries her. The film then cuts to Mark's funeral, held sometime later, and attended by four of the women he came to know and care for, including now pregnant Cheryl. Father Brendan delivers the eulogy and Susan reads one of his poems.

