Dangerous_Liaisons
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 111
Director: Hur Jin-Ho
Cast: Zhang Ziyi,Jang Dong-gun,Cecilia Cheung,Shawn Dou,Lisa Lu,Rong Rong,Candy Wang,Ye Xiangming,Xiao Shuli,Zhang Yun,Wu Fang,Chen Guodong,Zhang Han,Xue Wei,Hao Yifei,Zong Xiaojun,Yang Fan,Gang Xiaoxi,Zhang Zichen,Piao Yanni,Yan Hongyu,Jiang Yiyi,Dong Hailong,Son Seong-jae,Leng Haiming,Yang Chen,Xiang Dong,Yin Yanbin,Ji En,Li Shiping,
Content: Korean director Hur Jin-ho transplants author Pierre Choderlos de Laclos' celebrated novel to 1930s-era Shanghai in this lavish adaptation distinguished by rich period detail. As the drums of war begin to beat, aging socialite Mo Jieyu (Cecelia Cheung) finds her beauty beginning to fade. Meanwhile her former lover Xie Yifan (Jang Dong-gun), a notorious womanizer, turns his attentions toward the virginal Du Fenyu (Ziyi Zhang), who seems completely immune to his formidable powers of seduction. Later, as Mo entices Xie into a treacherous game of seduction that requires him to break Du's heart, the unrepentant libertine finds his conscience stirred as he begins to experience the joys and sorrows of true love for the very first time. 
Wiki info: 
Dangerous Liaisons (危險關係) is a 2012 Chinese film by Hur Jin-ho based on the novel with the same title by Pierre Choderlos de Laclos. It has been adapted five times to date, including the eponymous Hollywood film (1988), Valmont (1989), Cruel Intentions (1999), and Untold Scandal from South Korea (2003).
This version is set in 1930s Shanghai and stars South Korean actor Jang Dong-gun and Chinese actresses Zhang Ziyi and Cecilia Cheung.
The film screened in the Directors' Fortnight section at the 2012 Cannes Film Festival, the 2012 Toronto International Film Festival, and the Busan International Film Festival.
Shanghai, September 1931: Wealthy businessman and serial seducer Xie Yifan (Jang Dong-gun) is introduced to his uncle's granddaughter, Du Fenyu (Zhang Ziyi), when his maternal grandmother, Du Ruixue (Lisa Lu), arrives at his apartment one day. Fenyu, a young widow who's just arrived from Northeast China (aka Manchuria) where the Japanese are making incursions, is staying at the country home of Madam Du, her grand-aunt.
At a glitzy fund-raiser for refugees thrown by Hudong Bank chairwoman Mo Jieyu (Cecilia Cheung) at Yifan's nightclub, Jieyu, an old friend of Yifan who's never succumbed to his advances, asks him to rob Beibei (Candy Wang), the 16-year-old fiancee of tycoon Jin Zhihuan (Zhang Han), of her virginity. Jieyu wants revenge on Jin, for publicly dumping her in favor of a schoolgirl. Yifan turns down Jieyu's request, partly because he has another quarry in his sights—the quiet and retiring Fenyu. Sensing an opportunity for some sport, Jieyu makes Yifan a wager: if he can seduce Fenyu without falling in love, she will finally agree to sleep with him; if he fails, he will sign over a valuable piece of land to her. Yifan accepts the challenge, but finds the virtuous Fenyu apparently immune to his charms.
Meanwhile, Jieyu employs a different strategy to get her revenge on Jin, encouraging an attraction between Beibei and her young drawing teacher, college student Dai Wenzhou (Shawn Dou). Despite Jieyu's strenuous efforts, the relationship is never consummated; but when she finds out about it, Beibei's mother, Mrs. Zhu (Rong Rong), forbids her daughter to see Wenzhou anymore. With time running out, Jieyu suggests to Mrs. Zhu that Beibei should spend some quiet time at Madam Du's estate—and secretly arranges for Yifan to be there, to "comfort" Beibei. Mission finally accomplished, Yifan refocuses on seducing Fenyu, but finds himself in deeper emotional waters than he's ever experienced.

