Step_Up_Revolution
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 99
Director: Scott Speer
Cast: Ryan Guzman,Kathryn McCormick,Misha Gabriel,Peter Gallagher,Stephen "tWitch" Boss,Chadd "Madd Chadd" Smith,Tommy Dewey,Cleopatra Coleman,Megan Boone,Sean Rahill,Seyfo in the MOB,Adam Sevani,Mari Koda,Brendan Morris,Phillip "Pacman" Chbeeb in The Mob,Justin "Jet Li" Valles in The Mob,Glenn Mataro in The Mob,Celestina Aladekoba in The Mob,Angeline Fioridella Appel in The Mob,Mia Michaels,Bebo in the MOB,Darlene Vee De Ocampo,
Content: An aspiring dancer in Miami befriends an innovative flash-mob dance crew, and helps them to stage a footloose protest in order to save their neighborhood from a greedy developer. Emily (Kathryn McCormick) has always dreamt of becoming a professional dancer. Shortly after moving to Miami, she meets up with Sean (Ryan Guzman) -- the leader of a crew called The Mob that takes the art of dance straight to the streets. Meanwhile, as Emily falls for Sean, a powerful businessman begins plotting to demolish the crew's historic neighborhood to make way for a highly profitable development. Now, with their homes at stake and nothing to lose, Sean, Emily, and The Mob prepare to stage a show that will save their families from getting thrown into the streets. 
Wiki info: 
Step Up Revolution (also known as Step Up 4: Miami Heat, and previously titled Step Up 4Ever) is an American 3D dance film produced by Step Up 3D director Jon M. Chu and directed by Scott Speer. The fourth installment in the Step Up film series was released on July 27, 2012, and stars Ryan Guzman and Kathryn McCormick, the latter from the sixth season of So You Think You Can Dance. The film features choreography by Jamal Sims, Christopher Scott, Chuck Maldonado and Travis Wall. The production design was created by Carlos A. Menendez. Unlike the first three films, produced by Touchstone Pictures and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, this film was produced and distributed by Summit Entertainment without Disney's involvement.
The film begins on Ocean Blv. in Miami, Florida. A flashmob, later identified as 'The Mob,' shuts down Ocean Blv. by cutting off the streets with retro convertibles and dancing to music blasted by DJ Penelope (Cleopatra Coleman). When their dance is over, the Mob hops into their cars and speeds away, leaving behind a spray-painted glass featuring the words 'THE MOB' by locally renounced street artist Mercury (Michael Langebeck), who never talks.
A few hours later, Sean (Ryan Guzman), Eddy (Misha Gabriel), and Jason (Stephen "tWitch" Boss), the leaders of the Mob, watch their latest flashmob air on the news in a restaurant kitchen where they work. A few complain about their public disturbance, while others praise it. After they get off work, they sneak into the Dimont Hotel's beach club (where they work), claiming to be guests, not employees.
Meanwhile, across the club at the bar, Emily (Kathryn McCormick) tries to get the waiter's attention, but ends up preparing her own beer. Sean, who is immediately smitten by her, asks for a beer. Emily instead heads down to the beach to dance, resulting in a dance battle between the two, but ending when Emily suddenly runs off, mirroring Cinderella.
The next day, Emily and her dad Bill Anderson (Peter Gallagher) argue over breakfast at the Dimont Hotel. Sean, their waiter, immediately recognizes her, but Emily spills her orange juice in an attempt to distract Sean. In an angry fit, Emily storms off, and Sean immediately follows her into the hotel's ballroom, where Emily begins a fast contemporary dance, oblivious to Sean's presence. After, Emily explains to Sean that she's trying to nail an audition for the prestigious Winwood Dance Academy. Sean advises her to incorporate faster, more interesting moves, but Emily declines, saying that there are rules. Sean, in turn, tells her to break the rules, giving her an address and telling her to come there. Emily does and finds herself at the Miami Museum of Fine Arts, where the paintings and statues come to life, which is work of the Mob. By telling her to attend, Sean basically reveals to her his participation in the Mob.
The next day, Emily persuades Sean to let her take part in their next Mob, which is scheduled to hit a restaurant the following week. Eddy immediately dislikes Emily, giving her the lead to test her. The flashmob goes well and Eddy admits that Emily did great. Emily and Sean then sneak onto a boat Sean had reserved for himself to sail down the river. There, they kiss and sleep on the boat until morning, when they hurry back to Sean's uncle's bar, Ricky's. Ricky reveals to them that Emily's dad, a building tycoon, is planning to develop the slums, destroying Ricky's bar, Sean's home, and many other things.
Sean, Emily, Eddy, and Penelope then lead the Mob in various protest Mobs. Eddy finds out that Emily is Bill's daughter, and reveals to Bill that Emily is a part of the Mob. This ruins relationships for Emily with Sean (romantically), Eddy (friendly), Bill (trustfully), and the rest of the Mob. She ignores Sean, and as a result fails her audition for Winwood.
After Eddy and Sean are sent to jail for being caught in the flashmob, Ricky bails them out and Eddy and Sean make up. They then Mob the development public announcement, with the help of past Step Up characters including Moose (Adam Sevani). Bill decides to build up the community rather than tear it down, Sean and Emily kiss passionately and make up, and Eddy makes a deal with the owner of Nike for the Mob to dance in the commercials.

