The Tall Man is a 2012 Canadian and French mystery-supernatural thriller film written and directed by Pascal Laugier. It was filmed in the Kootenay region of Southeastern British Columbia and stars Jessica Biel. The film is set in a small former mining town where poverty is rife and children are disappearing on a regular basis. The abductions are blamed on a local legend called "the Tall Man." Jessica Biel plays the widow of the town doctor who continues his work and whose own son disappears, leading her to seek out the mystery of the Tall Man.
Julia lives in a small town in Washington called Cold Rock. She is the town's local nurse, widowed by her husband who was the town's doctor. Cold Rock was formerly a mining town, but since these mines - forming miles of tunnels under the entire area - closed down, the town has become a poverty stricken and run-down area. There is no school, no work and only apathy abounds.
During her day, Julia visits several families, including Jenny (Jodelle Ferland) and her mother who lives with her violent alcoholic boyfriend. This man left Carol, Jenny's sister, pregnant, but their mother did not kick him out of their house; instead, she sent her daughter and the baby - that Julia helped to deliver - to her sister in Seattle. Julia is obviously very disappointed in her and this choice. Because of her rough life and family problems, Jenny is selectively mute and only writes down her feelings in a notebook which she always carries. She also draws pictures of things she's seen, etc., including pictures of "the tall man".
Julia returns to her large home on the outskirts of Cold Rock, which she shares with her son David and his nanny. She eats dinner, puts David to bed, then she falls asleep on a couch. She awakes to a noise downstairs, followed by a loud radio sermon. She finds the nanny tied and gagged on the ground, then rushes to her son's bedroom to find him gone.
While in pursuit of what the viewer believes is "The Tall Man", it's gradually revealed that Julia's son isn't, in fact, her son at all, but rather one of the kidnapped children. Julia isn't a distraught mother attempting to locate her child; she's actually the person the entire town has been afraid of all this time. The person who took her 'son' was actually the real mother of the boy, who by accident had discovered that Julia had kidnapped him and was holding him at her house. The mother, being homeless and regarded as the town crazy, decided to rescue her boy on her own, fearing that if she went to the police the well-respected Julia would have her locked away, dismissing her accusations as the ramblings of a madwoman.
Julia pursues the woman and David to the abandoned hospital where she has been living. During a fight Julia knocks out the woman and with the help of Jenny, she returns to her house. Jenny begs her to "let the Tall Man take  too", something which Julia initially says no to, but then relents, although she tells Jenny that she should be careful what she wishes for and not to speak to anyone about this. Julia then takes David down into the tunnels, presumably to hand him over to the Tall Man before returning to wait for the mob.
The police and FBI arrive, as does the entire town screaming for Julia's blood and their missing children. The Nanny hangs herself and Julia is taken to jail, where she is despised and threatened as a child killer.
Julia admits to kidnapping and murdering the children, but the confession is later revealed to be a lie. It transpires that Julia is part of an organization which 'rescues' young children from bad homes and places them with good ones in an attempt to break the cycle of poverty and abuse which passes from one generation to the next. The organization is worldwide and takes children from all over the globe, giving them a chance at having a better life in good homes free of abuse and neglect.
Soon after Jenny watches her mother engage in a drunken fight with her boyfriend before laughing with him over it. Disgusted, Jenny walks off into a nearby field where she finds the Tall Man waiting for her - Julia's husband who is not dead after all. He takes her to an almost empty house in the nearest city, where Jenny changes into pretty new clothes - a far cry from her dark and ragged old ones - and is taken to meet her "new mother". This woman is given documents which change Jenny into Vera, the woman's daughter. When her new mother attempts to give The Tall Man money, he refuses saying that the organization faces massive risks to rescue each child and Julia has sacrificed her life (she may receive the death penalty) to let the children begin again.
In Cold Rock, Jenny's birth mother grieves over her missing child that she thinks has run away, the town continues to decline with no hope of change and Julia sits in jail knowing she will never see the light of day again. The FBI and police have stated that with the massive amount of tunnels they will never be able to locate the bodies of the children which Julia 'killed' and left down there.
JennyVera lives in a beautiful home, where her art is encouraged and she has the best of everything. She has begun to talk and seems well adjusted and happy. As she walks to an art class she gives a voiceover saying that she loved all three of her mothers - her birth mother, Julia who gave her a chance at a new life, and her new mother who is providing her with everything she could ever want. As she crosses a park, she sees David with his new family, which he now accepts as his own, and he doesn't recognize Jenny at all. She then says that every morning she misses her real mother, and despite getting her wish of a better life, she sometimes thinks to return. Jenny's closing thoughts question society's implication that her new life of everything is better than her natural life in Cold Rock.
In 2012 it premiered at the South by Southwest where it was acquired by Image Entertainment. It received a limited release on August 31, 2012 and was released on Blu-ray and DVD 25 days later on September 25, 2012. Currently, the film has a rating of 50% on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 24 reviews and an average score of 5.110.
The concept of the film shows several similarities to the German folktale of "Der Grossemann" who is said to abduct children, as well as the popular internet meme "The Slender Man" and its associated media.
The film is very similar to the short-lived 2010 TV series Happy Town, in which the townsfolk of Haplin, Minnesota allege that an elusive "Magic Man" has been responsible for the abductions of several children. Stephen McHattie was a cast member of both The Tall Man and Happy Town.
A nurse races to rescue her young son from a seemingly supernatural figure who's been snatching children from a depressed mining town in this downbeat tale of terror from Martyrs director Pascal Laugier. For years, a mysterious entity known as the Tall Man has been abducting children from Cold Rock. The moment they vanish, they're never seen again. Once a prosperous mining town, Cold Rock has fallen to ruin, yet local nurse Julia (Jessica Biel) writes off rumors of the elusive Tall Man as local superstition. Then one night, to her horror, Julia awakens to find her son David in the arms of the spectral figure, who steals the boy away into the darkness. Now Julia won't stop searching for David until he's back safe in her arms, and the truth about the missing children of Cold Rock is finally revealed. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Tall Man Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 106&nbsp;mins
