Senna is a British 2010 documentary film that depicts the life and death of Brazilian motor-racing champion, Ayrton Senna. The film was produced by StudioCanal, Working Title Films and Midfield Films, and was distributed by the parent company of the latter two production companies, Universal Pictures.
It is Asif Kapadia's fourth feature film as director. It has received great critical acclaim.
In the film, both through home videos provided by the Senna family and from interviews with people that had known him, Senna is presented as sublime, spiritual, on occasion ruthless, as well as private, humble and fiercely patriotic, donating millions to his native Brazil and contemplating a life outside motor racing.
The film begins with Senna's arrival into Formula One during the 1984 season, briefly covering his time at Toleman and Lotus before concentrating on his time with the British team McLaren – the association that brought his rise to global fame – becoming a World Champion. The drama of this period of his career centers on his rivalry with his team mate Alain Prost, and his political struggles with the then head of FISA Jean-Marie Balestre, climaxing during the 1989 and 1990 seasons, when Senna and Prost were involved in controversial clashes which decided the drivers' world championship title, in 1989 for Prost and in 1990 for Senna.
The film conveys the increasingly complex dynamics and tumult that characterized Senna's years as world champion, his battle to improve his sport's safety, and his reactions as he witnesses accidents and eventually death of Austrian fellow-driver Roland Ratzenberger the day before his own. We see and hear through Senna's point of view what it represented that innovative computerization led in these years to the technological domination of the Williams cars, with Prost joining Williams and, in a fallout with Senna, refusing team with Senna any more. The documentary reaches its finale as Prost retires and Senna takes up a champion driver spot with Williams, the Grove-based team in 1994, just as Formula One rules change, disallowing computerization, and the Williams' cars undergo rapid reconfiguration that proves fatal. In the culminating weekend of his life, at the that year's San Marino Grand Prix, painful footage shows Senna under extreme stress, troubled and rightly so, as safety conditions reveal their weaknesses in one track accident after another over three consecutive days. We see Senna's anguish as Ratzenberger dies on April 30, building the film's tension along with Senna's and a sense of foreboding that almost predicts the fatal crash the very next day in which Senna will lose his life. The film concludes with the Senna family and his close friends from Formula One mourning his loss at his funeral.
Senna received critical acclaim from critics. The film has a 92% "certified fresh" rating on the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, based on 116 reviews, with the consensus: "Even for filmgoers who aren't racing fans, Senna offers heart-pounding thrills -- and heartbreaking emotion." Dan Jolin of Empire Magazine gave the film 4 stars out of 5 and stated that it is "ambitiously constructed, deeply compelling, thrilling and in no way only for those who like watching cars drive in circles". Daniel Sarath from the online blog Napier's News gave the film 5 stars and called it "a flawless work of cinema that showcases documentary filmmaking at its most exciting". Alex Zane from The Sun gave the film 4 out of 5 and wrote that Senna is "fascinating and profoundly moving". Steve Rose, writing in The Guardian, also gave the film a 4 out of 5, and praised the fact that "with so much recorded footage of Formula One available, it has been possible to fashion Senna's story as a live action drama rather than a posthumous documentary. We're not so much hearing what happened in the past as seeing it happen before our eyes."
Alain Prost was highly critical of the film and its depiction of his relationship with Senna as he felt is did not adequately explore the way their relationship changed from rivals to friends in the final months of Senna's life.
A special screening of Senna was held on October 7, 2010 at the 2010 Japanese Grand Prix, at the Suzuka Circuit in Suzuka, Japan. The official world première was held at the Cinemark Theatre in Sao Paulo, Brazil on November 3, 2010. It was released in Brazil on 12 November 2010 and the UK on 3 June 2011.
In Japan and Brazil, the film was released on DVD and Blu-ray discs on March 21 and 24, 2011, respectively. On October 11 it was released onto home media in the UK. The film is currently available on Netflix Instant, and was released on March 6, 2012 in the U.S.
Buckle in and hit the blacktop with Brazilian Formula One champion Ayrton Senna as filmmaker Asif Kapadia draws on archival footage to reveal how the humble world-renowned racer blasted past the competition to become a true living legend. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Senna Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 106&nbsp;mins
