The Forger is a light-drama film about art forgery, released in 2012 starring Lauren Bacall, Alfred Molina, Dina Eastwood, Hayden Panettiere and Josh Hutcherson. The film is produced by Michael-Ryan Fletchall and Craig Comstock, directed by Lawrence Roeck, and written by Carlos De Los Rios.
The Forger, previously titled Carmel, marks Lawrence Roeck's debut as a feature film director. The film's 24-day shooting schedule finished on location in Carmel, California in February 2009, and included Carmel locals in several key scenes. Experience Media Studios acquired the unfinished film in early 2010, and completed it by February 2011. The movie was released on DVD in July 2012 due to a decision to delay the movie until after major films such as The Hunger Games (in which Josh Hutcherson plays a leading role) had premiered.
Following a title change to The Forger, the movie was released on DVD on July 3, 2012.
Joshua Mason (Josh Hutcherson) is a troubled 15-year-old who is abandoned by his mother and loves to paint, and is quite good at it. But he mimics other people's paintings. One day an artist finds him painting one of his paintings and chases him. He gets away but now has no money for food. He sneaks into a house and finds a room with paintings and finishes one perfectly. The man who owns the house, Everly, finds him and calls the police but then finds the painting and is amazed and takes Josh under his wing. Josh finds out Everly just copies works. Now he has to make a decision, help him, or hurt him.
Israeli filmmaker Amos Gitai offers an impressionistic look at his nation's long history of armed conflict in this experimental feature. Carmel begins with a re-creation of a battle from the first century, with Hebrews fighting off an invading Roman army, and the cascade of images that follows explores the theme of war and violence in Israeli history. The film also touches on the 1973 Yom Kippur War (which Gitai himself fought in) and current waves of terrorism and violence, as well as the less aggressive but equally telling conflicts that are a part of everyday life and the role of the media in feeding a culture of brutality and reprisal. Carmel features narration from the legendary French actress Jeanne Moreau and an eclectic musical score than runs the gamut from Gustav Mahler to the Israeli punk-rock band the Jews. Carmel was an official selection at the 2009 Toronto International Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 95&nbsp;mins
