Bill Cunningham New York is a 2010 documentary film directed by Richard Press and produced by Philip Gefter. Bill Cunningham New York is distributed by Zeitgeist Films and was released in theaters on March 16, 2011.
"We all get dressed for Bill", says Vogue editor Anna Wintour. The Bill in question is New York Times photographer Bill Cunningham. For decades, this Schwinn-riding cultural anthropologist has been obsessively and inventively chronicling fashion trends and high-society charity soirees for the Times's Style section in his columns "On the Street" and "Evening Hours".
Full of uptown fixtures (such as Wintour, Tom Wolfe, Brooke Astor, David Rockefeller—who all appear in the film), downtown eccentrics and everyone in between, Cunningham’s enormous body of work documents its time and place as well as individual flair. Bill Cunningham New York portrays the man at work (on the street and at the office) and at home (a Carnegie Hall studio).
Bill Cunningham New York played at New York City's Film Forum from March 16 to 29, 2011 before opening in theaters in a limited release around the United States.
The film was critically well-received, garnering a 99% approval rating on movie review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes. The Hollywood Reporter described Bill Cunningham New York as a "Fascinating doc about a photographer surveying the highs and lows of New York society." New York Magazine chose Bill Cunningham New York as one of their Critics' Picks. Roger Ebert gave the film four out of four stars, writing "This movie made me happy every moment I was watching it."
Bill Cunningham is a fashion photographer, but unlike most in his profession, he rarely spends a day in a photo studio. Cunningham's work has been a long-time fixture in The New York Times; in his "Evening Hours" column, he presents pictures he's snapped of the wealthy and influential and what they're wearing to social events, while "On the Street" documents bold and individual looks worn by everyday people on the sidewalks of New York City. Cunningham captures the glamorous lives of others and has been hailed as one of the most important men in New York fashion, yet he prefers to live a simple life -- he rides a bicycle around town, makes his home in a modest apartment, has his film processed at a corner store, and keeps his personal life to himself. Filmmaker Richard Press offers a look into the life and art of this influential and enigmatic figure in the documentary Bill Cunningham New York, which follows him as he works and tries to reveal what makes this unique artist tick. Bill Cunningham New York was an official selection at the 2010 Silverdocs Documentary Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All Bill Cunningham New York Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 84&nbsp;mins
