Closed for the Season is a 2010 supernatural thriller film written and directed by Jay Woelfel, starring Aimee Brooks, Damian Maffei, and Joe Unger. 
The film tells the story of Kristy who, one ill-fated night, wakes up to find herself trapped beneath the ruins of a dilapidated wooden roller coaster inside the decaying vestiges of an abandoned amusement park. She quickly finds herself being terrorized by all the myths and urban legends that have become part of Chippewa Lake’s 130-year history. While attempting to escape the sights and sounds she is witnessing, Kristy runs into James, whose parents are the caretakers of the park.
James listens to Kristy’s plight and journeys with her to investigate these ghosts that have come alive to threaten her. He quickly determines that her frightening accounts are amazingly accurate. However, James discovers that he, too, is now trapped, along with Kristy, inside the park with these demons from the past. Searching futilely for an exit, the pair finds that various attractions—long discarded and fallen into ruin—suddenly come to life, tormenting them at every turn.
As Kristy and James make their way through the remains of the park, they encounter a mysterious carny in clown makeup, who once was responsible for operating the amusement park’s roller coaster but who died many years previously. He advises the couple that their only escape to freedom is to relive and survive all the life-threatening tales from the park’s past and to ride the now-operational rides in the park one final time.
The couple has no choice but to heed the baffling advice of their inexplicable guide, as he leads them through the park from one horror to another, so they might win their freedom. The looming question remains: will Kristy and James survive the deadly, mythical and mystical apparitions of this desolate and ruinous amusement park or simply become just one more urban legend of the infamous park?
The film was written and directed by Jay Woelfel, and produced by ShadowCast Pictures; Jay Ellison and Jon Wagner worked as executive producers. It was shot in Chippewa Lake, Ohio and Los Angeles, California. The film is based upon folklore surrounding an amusement park in Chippewa Lake, Ohio. Many of the film's scenes were shot on the site of the long-closed amusement park, using some of the derelict attractions as backgrounds.
The film premiered on March 12, 2010 at the Monster-Mania 14 and is part of the Famous Monster Convention.
A young woman finds herself stranded in an abandoned amusement park, and tormented by the horrors of its gruesome past. Now in order to escape, she must face her deepest fears. Aimee Brooks and Damian Maffei star in this independent shocker from writerdirector Jay Woelfel (Ghost Lake, Demonicus). ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 114&nbsp;mins
