BLAST! is a feature-length documentary by Paul Devlin. The film follows a team of astrophysicists who launch a telescope, upon a high altitude balloon from northern Sweden and again from Antarctica. The film follows the crew of scientists as they travel on a search to answer humankind's most basic question, how did we get here? An approach rarely seen in science programming, BLAST! de-emphasizes talking-head interviews and dispenses with anonymous narration in favor of capturing the action as it happens. Through dynamic storytelling, BLAST! reveals the human side of scientific pursuit, the personal sacrifices of scientists and the philosophical perspectives of discovering the origins of the universe.
BLAST! premiered at Hot Docs on Tuesday, April 22, 2008. It is now playing at film festivals around the world. Festival screenings include:
BLAST! has co-production partnerships with BBC 4’s documentary strand Storyville, Discovery Channel Canada, SVT Sweden, and YLEFST Finland. The film will broadcast on Discovery Channel in February 2009. BLAST! has also been acquired by VPRO-Netherlands and DR2-Denmark.
BLAST, the Ballon-borne-Large-Aperture Submillimeter Telescope, was a 2-metre telescope flown from a high-altitude balloon to observe submillimeter radiation emitted mostly by dust heated by young stars. It was created to address important extragalactic and Galactic questions regarding the formation and evolution of stars, galaxies and clusters.
As an official special project of the International Year of Astronomy 2009. BLAST! will screen in communities around the world throughout 2009. The International Year of Astronomy 2009 is a global effort initiated by the International Astronomical Union and UNESCO, or United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization, to help the citizens of the world rediscover their place in the Universe through the day- and night-time sky, and thereby engage a personal sense of wonder and discovery. The International Year of Astronomy 2009 is endorsed by United Nations and International Council of Science.
Astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson of the American Museum of Natural History and host of PBS NOVA scienceNOW commented on the film by saying, "In a rare combination of content and storytelling, BLAST! treats the viewer not only to the fruits of cosmic discovery but to the fits and starts of dedicated scientists who navigate paths of research that enable it."
Tim Teeman from Times Entertainment said of the film "For those of us with bad memories of physics and chemistry class, it was inspirational and aspirational."
Simon Horsford of The Telegraph UK wrote that the film is "A story that, in trying to answer age-old questions about how we got here, produces an intriguing dynamic between the two main scientists."
Filmmaker Paul Devlin follows his brother, Dr. Mark Devlin, and a dedicated team of fearless astrophysicists as they take a spectacular journey into the heart of the Big Bang. There comes a point in everyone's life when they begin to wonder about the origins of the universe, and Dr. Devlin's world-class team turns that heady speculation into a full-time job as they prepare to launch a multi-million-dollar telescope affixed to a NASA high-altitude balloon. When it comes to a sensitive job like this, it's important to ensure that the smallest details have all been accounted for because the misplacement of a single microchip could lead to major disaster. Now, as the team transports their telescope from the Canadian North down to Antarctica, the sacrifices, failures, and triumphs of their remarkable journey are captured on camera for the joy of astrophysics fanatics everywhere. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 74&nbsp;mins
