The Elephant in the Living Room is an American documentary film about the raising of exotic pets in homes around the United States, and the controversy surrounding the issue. In some States there are currently no laws around keeping exotic animals as pets, even though incidents have occurred where their owners and people around them are put in serious danger and hurt by these animals.
Praised by critics as one of the best films of the year, The Elephant in the Living Room takes viewers on a journey deep inside the controversial American subculture of raising the most dangerous animals in the world, as common household pets. Set against the backdrop of a heated national debate, director Michael Webber chronicles the extraordinary story of two men at the heart of the issue – Tim Harrison, an Ohio police officer whose friend was killed by an exotic pet; and Terry Brumfield, a big-hearted man who struggles to raise two African lions that he loves like his own family. In the first of many unexpected twists, the lives of these two men collide when Terry’s male lion escapes its pen and is found attacking cars on a nearby highway.
"You can buy a cobra, but you can't buy common sense," says Tim Harrison, and he knows something about the subject. Harrison is a policeman, paramedic, and firefighter who has become an expert on dealing with exotic pets when they break free or turn on their owners. It's estimated that 15,000 lions, tigers, and other large cats are kept as pets in the United States, and while many are well cared for, some are purchased by people who are unaware of the danger and responsibility of caring for a predatory animal, and Harrison has also been forced to deal with bears, alligators, and large snakes that were adopted as pets and later became a danger to the community. Adding to a difficult situation is inconsistent regulation of exotic pet ownership, which makes it easier to own a tiger than a puppy in some territories. Filmmaker Michael Webber examines the trading of exotic pets in America and Tim Harrison's work with animals in the documentary The Elephant in the Living Room. The film also offers the perspective of Terry Brumfield, a man who struggled with depression for years before developing a close relationship with a pair of lions he adopted. The Elephant in the Living Room was named best documentary at the 2010 Traverse City Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All The Elephant in the Living Room Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 96&nbsp;mins
