Bully (originally titled The Bully Project) is a 2011 documentary film about bullying in U.S. schools. Directed by Lee Hirsch, the film follows the lives of five students who face bullying on a daily basis. Bully premiered at the 2011 Tribeca Film Festival. It was also screened at the Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival and the LA Film Festival.
Bully had its global premiere at Italy's Ischia Film Festival on July 17, 2011. Bully was acquired by The Weinstein Company immediately after its premiere at Tribeca Film Festival. The film was released in United States theaters on March 30, 2012.
On the official website the filmmakers are promoting Bully as an important advocacy against bullying and facilitating an anti-bullying movement. Contrary to the filmmakers goals, the film has been critiqued for its inaccessibility in theatres, and the extended downtime between theatre and home release. The film is set to be released on Blu-ray and DVD on February 12, 2013, with pre-orders available through Amazon.com.
The documentary follows students from public schools in Georgia, Iowa, Texas, Mississippi and Oklahoma during the 2009–10 school year; it also follows the students' families. The film's particular focus is on the deaths of Tyler Long and Ty Smalley, victims of bullying who took their own lives. The film describes in great detail how the average American school kid cannot defend himself or herself against ridicule.
The film's director, Lee Hirsch, was a victim of bullying as a child and decided to make a documentary so that the hidden lives of bullied children would be brought into the open. He approached the nonprofit organization Fractured Atlas, which gave him partial funding for the film. Significant additional funding was provided by Sundance Institute Documentary Fund, The Fledgling Fund, BeCause Foundation and Gravity Films. The film's music was composed by Ion Michael Furjanic (former member of the band Force Theory) and indie band Bishop Allen.
In a screening in Minneapolis in September 2011, Hirsch told the audience that his having been bullied as a child was part of the inspiration for the film. In an interview with a Twin Cities Jewish news website after the screening Hirsch continued, "I felt that the hardest part of being bullied was communicating, and getting help. I couldn’t enroll people’s support. People would say things like 'get over it,' even my own father and mother. They weren't with me. That was a big part of my wanting to make the film. It's cathartic on a daily basis." Hirsch said he hoped the film grows far beyond him, inspiring advocacy, engagement, and empowerment not just in people who are being bullied and in their families, but by those of us who all too often stand by and do nothing. He stated, "I hope we build something that’s really sustainable. I hope this takes on a life of its own."
On February 27, 2012 a Change.org online petition was created, directed to the CEO of the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) in order to reduce the movie's rating from R (due to some language as shown in the poster) to PG-13. As a former victim of bullying, Katy Butler, one of the originators of the petition, stated that "Because of the R rating, most kids won’t get to see this film. No one under 17 will be allowed to see the movie, and the film won’t be screened in American middle schools or high schools." As of March 15, 2012, Butler had collected more than 300,000 signatures, but the MPAA initially hesitated to make the change. Joan Graves of the MPAA said that though Bully is a "wonderful film", the organization's primary responsibility is to provide information to parents about the films' content.
On March 26, 2012, The Weinstein Company announced that it would release Bully unrated, in protest of the MPAA's decision. This effectively restricts the movie to art-house and independently owned theaters as AMC, Cinemark, and many other American cinema chains have policies against screening unrated films, although the former announced it would allow minors to watch the film upon receipt of a signed permission slip from a parent or guardian. Regal Cinemas did indicate they would play the film; however it would treat it as an R-rated feature.
In Canada (where each province sets their own rating), as of March 30, 2012, Bully has received only PG ratings (from six provinces: Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, Ontario, Québec and Saskatchewan) with no age restrictions but warnings for coarse language.
In April, the Weinstein Company came to an agreement with the MPAA. The film studio doesn't edit out the movie but toning down the profanity received a new rating of PG-13 (for intense thematic material, disturbing content and some strong language -- all involving kids), which meant that children of all ages may watch the movie without an adult. The Weinstein Company subsequently announced that the PG-13 rated version of Bully would be released nationwide on April 13, 2012. When it was released, its widest release was in 265 theaters.
Bully was positively received by critics. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 88% of critics have given the film a positive review based on 90 reviews, with an average score of 7.210, making the film "Certified Fresh" on the website's rating system. At Metacritic, the film received an average score of 75100, based on 23 reviews, which indicates "generally favorable reviews".
The film was parodied in the South Park episode "Butterballs", including a scene in which Kyle asks Stan (who created an anti-bullying documentary) "If this video needs to be seen by everyone, why don’t you put it on the Internet for free?" to which Stan had no answer.
At a point in time when bullying in America has reached epidemic proportions, Emmy-winning director Lee Hirsch invites viewers to spend a year in the lives of students and parents who contend with public torment and humiliation on a daily basis. By following the young victims from the classroom to their living rooms, we are given an intimate glimpse into the effects bullying has on their families and their developing sense of self-worth. Meanwhile, parents, administrators, and other students struggle to find a workable solution to the problem that will never go away unless we all stand up and face it eye to eye. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Bully Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 99&nbsp;mins
