Born to Be Wild is a 2011 American nature documentary short film about orphaned orangutans and elephants. It was directed by David Lickley, written and produced by Drew Fellman. It was distributed in the United States by Warner Bros. Pictures and IMAX Pictures. The trailer was released in December 2010 during a Marcus Theatres showing of Yogi Bear. The film was released April 8, 2011 and is narrated by Morgan Freeman. There was a Premiere of the film in Montreal, Quebec on March 30, 2011 at 9:30 AM at the Montreal Science Centre IMAX Telus Theatre for Two Montreal Primary schools and two secondary schools.
In March 2012, it won the Genesis Award for Best Documentary Feature from The Humane Society of the United States "for its celebration of the people rehabilitating baby elephants and orangutans orphaned by poaching and habitat encroachment."
The film has received overwhelmingly positive reviews, receiving a 98% "fresh" score on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 41 reviews. Its critical consensus states: "The human story of Born to Be Wild is captivating and the accompanying nature footage is utterly cute and charming."
"BORN TO BE WILD". Collider. http:www.collider.com20101123sherlock-holmes-2-movie-images-the-hangover-part-2-horrible-bosses. Retrieved 2010-11-24.
Shot in IMAX 3D, David Lickley's 40-minute documentary Born to Be Wild observes various orphaned jungle animals and their day-to-day behavioral interactions with the individuals who rescue them and raise them to adulthood. The film unfurls in two separate geographic spheres. Half of it takes place in the rain forests of Borneo, where celebrated primatologist Dr. Birute Galdikas assists baby orangutans; the other half takes place on the arid savannahs of Kenya, where zoologist Dame Daphne Sheldrick works with baby elephant calves. The goal, in each case, is not simply rehabilitation but the ultimate return of these animals to the wild, where (it is hoped) they will function freely and independently. Oscar-winner Morgan Freeman narrates; Drew Fellman produced and authored the script. ~ Nathan Southern, RoviSee All Born to Be Wild Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 41&nbsp;mins
