Mala Noche (also known as Bad Night) is a 1986 American drama film written and directed by Gus Van Sant, based on an autobiographical novel by the Oregon poet Walt Curtis. The movie was shot in 16 mm, mostly black-and-white. Mala Noche is the first feature film by Gus Van Sant. It was shot entirely on location in Portland, Oregon.
The story follows relationship between Walt (Tim Streeter), a gay store clerk, and two younger Mexican boys, Johnny (Doug Cooeyate) and Roberto Pepper (Ray Monge). Walt and his female friend (Nyla McCarthy) convince them to come over for dinner, but Johnny and Pepper have to return to their cheap hotel because another friend is locked out. Walt makes his first pass at Johnny by offering him $15 to sleep with him. Johnny refuses and runs to his hotel room, leaving Pepper locked out with nowhere to spend the night but Walt's. Settling for second best, Walt lies down next to Pepper and allows him on top for sex. However, he does not give up on trying to win over Johnny. The film progresses from there into not always clearly defined relationships, unbalanced by age, language, race, sexuality, and money.
The debut film of director Gus Van Sant, this independent, low-budget comedy-drama based on an autobiographical novel by Walt Curtis was produced on black-and-white 16 mm film for only $25,000. Tim Streeter stars as Walt, the manager of a seedy liquor store in Portland, OR. Walt, who is gay, has fallen desperately in love with Johnny (Doug Cooeyate), a teenage illegal Mexican immigrant who doesn't speak English. Although Johnny is utterly unaffected by Walt's attentions, the boy does agree to sleep with his suitor for $25, but Walt can't come up with the cash. Introduced to Walt's sister Betty (Nyla McCarthy), it becomes clear that Johnny prefers her romantic company. Walt settles for Johnny's best friend Roberto Pepper (Ray Monge), becoming the boys' protector and patron, teaching them how to drive and trying to learn Spanish, despite their cruel indifference toward him. After Roberto is killed by the police, however, Johnny disappears and Betty moves to Alaska to become an exotic dancer, leaving a broken-hearted, lonely, but none the wiser Walt behind. Despite the fact that Mala Noche (1987) was a hit on the festival circuit, even winning Best Independent Film from the Los Angeles Film Critics Association, it was released theatrically only after the success of Van Sant's next film, Drugstore Cowboy (1989). ~ Karl Williams, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 78&nbsp;mins
