List of Charmed episodes
The seventh season of Charmed, an American supernatural drama television series, began airing on September 12, 2004 on The WB. Airing on Sundays at 8 P.M., the season consisted of 22 episodes and concluded its airing on May 22, 2005.
20th Century Fox Home Entertainment released the complete seventh season in a six-disc box set on February 2, 2007.
The seventh season opens with the sisters reeling from Gideon's betrayal in the previous season's finale, having lost faith in themselves and their instincts. These feelings have affected Phoebe's work and so her boss hires a ghost writer to replace her so she can take a break. When she discovers Elise has hired a man, Leslie St. Claire, she is hesitant but eventually warms to him and they have a brief relationship.
Piper must deal with raising Chris, her new son, and saving Leo who has sunk to a dark place after Gideon's attack and the death of future Chris. He becomes paranoid that the other Elders are after him. Leo is stalked by a mysterious unknown power, which is eventually revealed to be the Avatars, an almighty power who dream of creating a utopia on Earth. After first being suspicious of their motives the sisters slowly begin to accept their plans, especially after it is revealed that Leo has become an Avatar.
Paige fights to keep Magic School open, and eventually becomes headmistress as well as beginning a romance with Agent Kyle Brody. In the second half of the season she hires Drake, a demon atoning for his sins by leading a life of good. Phoebe grows particularly close to him but trouble lies ahead when he reveals the price attached to his bargain.
This season introduced Zankou. Zankou is a demon whom The Source had locked away after a battle which brought him to power. Zankou begins to work to destroy the sisters leading them to make a life-changing decision in order to destroy him.
The Dan Lund-directed Death Becomes Them marks the latest entry in a long-held screen tradition - the shockumentary - which of course began with Jacopetti's notorious Mondo Cane and continued with entries such as Kirby Dick's Sick. Lund's film concerns Cathee Schultz and J.D. Healy, co-proprietors of the 'Museum of Death' in Los Angeles, which, during its shelf life, boasted artifacts and exhibits all related to the work of the Grim Reaper (coffins, autopsy implements, et cetera). Lund shot footage of the museum and its proprietors just before the institution's forced closure by building management, and also intercuts sequences in which an undertaker dances and sings musical numbers of songs original to this film. Fans of the outrageous and unusual will be hooked. Thematically, this makes an excellent companion piece to Thierry Zeno's 1979 docu Of the Dead. ~ Nathan Southern, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 71&nbsp;mins
