Black Moon is a 1975 FrenchWest German avant-garde film directed by Louis Malle. The film stars Cathryn Harrison, Joe Dallesandro, Therese Giehse, and Alexandra Stewart. Shown at the 1975 New York Film Festival, it was distributed in the United States by 20th Century Fox.
The surreal narrative pivots around Lily a confused teenager (Cathryn Harrison) who witnesses a war between the sexes and finds herself involved in numerous dream-like situations at a country estate. An underlying subtext offers a commentary on the Women's Movement of the 1970s.
Lily arrives at a country estate where a number of surrealunusual events take place. Naked children are used to round up sheep. On the estate are a number of people including a man tending to the upkeep of the grounds Joe Dallesandro called Lily. He does not speak but somehow communicates through touch. His sister (Alexandra Stewart) who also helps on the estate with rounding up sheep is also called Lily (they are credited at the end of the film as Brother Lily and Sister Lily). Therese Giehse plays a bedridden woman (credited as Old Lady) who communicates with a large rat, and also operates a ham radio next to her bed. She is demanding. This includes when she is hungry she seeks milk and is breastfed by sister Lily, and later by Lily.
Lily pursues a unicorn around the estate. It later turns up in Old Lady's room. Lily prepares to breastfeed it and the film ends.
The film is dedicated to Therese Giehse who died shortly after the end of the film.
Despite the film's location in France the film's dialogue is in English.
The film was shot in Malle's own 200-year-old manor house and Malle's surrounding 225-acre (0.91&#160;km2) estate in the lush, wild Dordogne valley in Quercy, near Cahors.
At the time of release, Black Moon received mixed reviews and vanished into obscurity. It has since been screened at theatrical revivals and aired on the Turner Classic Movies channel.
Film critic Jeff Stafford wrote:
Black Moon was the winner of two French César Awards for sound and cinematography.
A digitally restored version of the film was released by The Criterion Collection in June 2011.
In Louis Malle's apocalyptic fantasy Black Moon, Lily (Cathryn Harrison, granddaughter of Rex) drives down a lonesome road, and soon finds herself in a alternate world full of non sequiturs and bizarre characters. At times, this looks like a David Lynch film, what with an old woman conversing with a rat, a pack of naked children chasing a pig, a talking unicorn, a strange set of possibly incestuous siblings (one of whom is "underground" film star Joe Dallesandro), and several other warped set pieces. Malle reportedly culled inspiration for the narrative of this film from his own dreams. ~ Hal Erickson, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 100&nbsp;mins
