*So Close* (simplified Chinese: 夕阳天使; traditional Chinese: 夕陽天使; Chik yeung tin see) is a 2002 action film directed by Corey Yuen and starring Shu Qi, Karen Mok and Zhao Wei. The English title is derived from The Carpenters' song Close to You, which has a prominent role in the film.
Ai Lin (Shu Qi) and her sister Ai Quan (Zhao Wei) are computer hackers, assassins and espionage specialists who use their late father's secret satellite technology to give them the advantage over their rivals and law enforcement. They first assassinate the chairman of a top Chinese company.
After their successful mission, Police Detective named Kong Yat Hung (Karen Mok) is assigned to their case and is able to track them down. The cat-and-mouse chase becomes more complicated when Lin and Ai Quan become the targets of the very people who originally hired them.
Ai Quan has always been the assistant at home in the computer, while Ai Lin, the older and better assassin, did the field work. The arrangement made Ai Quan jealous. She just wanted to do field work, but she didn't know that Ai Lin was trying to protect her. She thought Ai Lin refused her more active participation because she was less adept. When Ai Lin fell in love and decided to give up her secret life to marry, the sisters had a falling out. Ai Quan wanted to continue contract killing to prove that she could be as good a killer as her older sister.
Yat Hung tracks Ai Quan to a bakery where she is buying birthday cake, which leads to a frantic car chase. Ai Quan is cornered by the police and calls her sister Ai Lin at home, asking for her help. At the same time though, killers, hired by the man who contracted the assassination in the beginning of the film, attack Ai Lin at home and she is killed, with Yat Hung being framed for her death. Ai Quan offers Yat Hung a way to clear her name, but only if she agrees help avenge Ai Lin's death. Left with no choice, Yat Hung teams up with Ai Quan to find the true killer.
A high tech corporation is sent into turmoil when hackers demanding ransom break into their internal computer system with a powerful and apparently unstoppable virus. A mysterious, beautiful young woman who calls herself "Computer Angel" quickly saves the business. But when she requests a meeting with the company's shady CEO, he gets more than he bargained for. Lynn (Shu Qi of The Transporter) turns out to be a highly skilled assassin, who knocks off the CEO with the help of her rambunctious younger sister Sue (Zhao Wei of Shaolin Soccer). Sue uses a powerful computer program developed by the girls' murdered father, which uses satellites to tap into closed-circuit security cameras, enabling her to see where all the cannon fodderguards are and direct Lynn's escape, while taking over the security team's audio system to pipe in a cover of the Carpenters' "(They Long to Be) Close to You." But things soon get dicey for Lynn and Sue. A brilliant, sexy forensics expert, Hong (Karen Mok, who also sings the film's theme song), is hot on their trail, and the creeps who hired the girls decide to cover their tracks by killing them. Complicating matters further, Lynn reunites with an old flame and contemplates giving up the business and settling down, much to Sue's chagrin. So Close was filmed in Mandarin, necessitating (reportedly poor) dubbing into Cantonese for the Hong Kong release. The film was directed by Corey Yuen, who made his Hollywood debut with The Transporter. Before that, he was best known for his fight choreography on many of Jet Li's films. So Close was shown at the Subway Cinema's 2003 New York Asian Film Festival. ~ Josh Ralske, RoviSee All So Close Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 110&nbsp;mins
