Holy Motors is a 2012 Franco-German fantasy drama film written and directed by Leos Carax, starring Denis Lavant and Édith Scob. Lavant plays a man who travels between multiple parallel lives. It is Carax's first feature film since 1999. The film competed for the Palme d'Or at the 2012 Cannes Film Festival.
The film opens with a character known only as "Le Dormeur". After waking up one morning, he somehow locates and opens a secret door in his apartment, and wanders into a packed movie house where an audience watches King Vidor's classic The Crowd, while a young child and a giant dog wander up and down the aisles. Meanwhile, a man called Oscar rides to work in a white limousine, driven by his close friend and associate Céline; Oscar's job, it seems, involves using makeup, elaborate costumes and props to carry out a number of complex and unusual scenarios. Of these, one has the actor performing an action sequence and simulated sex with an actress on a soundstage, while being filmed by a director. Another sequence puts him in a sewer, as Monsieur Merde, a character who first appeared in the film Tokyo!. Merde falls in love with a beautiful model, Kay M., whom he has kidnapped from a photo shoot in a cemetery. Subsequent episodes cast Oscar in a deathbed melodrama, a gangster film, a musical, alongside pop star Kylie Minogue, and many more.
Prior to the production of Holy Motors, Leos Carax had for five years tried to fund a big English-language film. As financiers were reluctant to invest, Carax, whose last feature film was Pola X in 1999, decided to make a smaller French-language production first, with the aim to regain prominence in international cinema. Taking inspiration from the omnibus Tokyo!, for which he had made a commissioned short film, Carax decided to write a cheap film pre-determined for his regular collaborator Denis Lavant. Carax was able to sway potential investors concerned with the film's budget by switching to digital photography, a film process of which he otherwise strongly disapproves.
The film's initial concept started with a trend Carax had observed where stretch limousines were being increasingly used for weddings. The director was interested in the cars' bulkiness: "They're outdated, like the old futurist toys of the past. I think they mark the end of an era, the era of large, visible machines." From that grew an idea for a film about the increasing digitalisation of society; a science fiction scenario where organisms and visible machines share a common superfluity. The opening scene was inspired by a tale by E. T. A. Hoffmann, about a man who discovers a secret door in his bedroom that leads to an opera house.
Holy Motors was produced through Pierre Grise Productions for a budget of €3.9 million, including money from the CNC, Île-de-France region, Arte France, Canal+, and Ciné+. The film is a 20% German co-production through the company Pandora, and received €350,000 from the Franco-German co-production support committee.
Carax said about the leading role which had been written specifically for Lavant: "If Denis had said no, I would have offered the part to Lon Chaney or to Chaplin. Or to Peter Lorre or Michel Simon, all of whom are dead." Édith Scob had previously worked with Carax on Les Amants du Pont-Neuf, but was there almost entirely cut out, so Carax felt he owed her a larger role. He also thought Holy Motors already owed to Georges Franju's Eyes Without a Face, in which Scob played, and Carax decided to give an explicit nod to the film by casting her. The character Kay M. came from a cancelled project which was supposed to star Lavant and Kate Moss, and follow the Merde character from Tokyo! in the United States. Eva Mendes was offered the role after she and Carax met at a film festival and said they wanted to make a film together. Kylie Minogue was discovered by Carax after Claire Denis suggested her for a cancelled project. The role played by Michel Piccoli was originally intended for Carax himself, but he decided it would be misleading to cast a filmmaker. When Piccoli was cast, the idea was to make him unrecognisable and credit him under a pseudonym, but the information reached the media.
Principal photography was located to Paris. Filming started in September and ended in November 2011. The soundtrack includes Minogue performing the original song "Who Were We?" written by Carax and Neil Hannon, as well as previously existing music by Dmitri Shostakovich, Sparks, Manset, R. L. Burnside, and the track "Sinking of Bingou-Maru" from Godzilla.
The film premiered on 23 May 2012 in competition at the 65th Cannes Film Festival. Variety reported that the screening was met with "whooping and hollering" and "a storm of critical excitement on Twitter". The film was released in France on 4 July 2012 through Les Films du Losange.
Upon its release, Holy Motors received many positive reviews; it currently has a 90% Fresh score on Rotten Tomatoes. Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian rated the film five out of five and wrote: "Leos Carax's Holy Motors is weird and wonderful, rich and strange – barking mad, in fact. It is wayward, kaleidoscopic, black comic and bizarre; there is in it a batsqueak of genius, dishevelment and derangement; it is captivating and compelling. ... his is what we have all come to Cannes for: for something different, experimental, a tilting at windmills, a great big pole-vault over the barrier of normality by someone who feels that the possibilities of cinema have not been exhausted by conventional realist drama." Bradshaw subsequently named the film one of the year's 10 best. Robbie Collin of The Daily Telegraph gave it five stars saying: "It is a film about the stuff of cinema itself, and is perhaps the strongest contender for the Palme d’Or yet." Spencer Hawken said, on his "Views From The Edge" blog, "Holy Motors is a mind-boggling movie, with oodles of character; it’s funny, emotional, and surprising. It has images that will stay in your head, most notably the accordion interlude, which comes completely out of nowhere, and really takes things up a gear." William Goss from Film.com called it "In terms of pure cinematic sensation, Holy Motors stands as one of the most delightfully enigmatic movies that I've seen in quite some time."
Sight & Sound film magazine placed the film at #4 on its critics poll of the best films of 2012; The Village Voice also ranked the film 3rd on its annual poll of film critics. The film was ranked first by both Film Comment and Indiewire on their year-end film critics polls. Manohla Dargis of The New York Times called Holy Motors one of 2012's 10 best films.
French film magazine Cahiers du cinema elected Holy Motors best film of the year.
This freewheeling surrealist outing from France attempts to dispense almost completely with conventional narrative structure; instead, it offers a series of absurdist sketches with scarcely any discernible connection between them. The film opens on a character played by director Leos Carax known only as "Le Dormeur." After waking up one morning, he somehow locates and opens a secret door in his apartment, and wanders into a packed movie house where an audience watches King Vidor's classic The Crowd and a giant dog wanders up and down the aisles. Meanwhile, Oscar (Denis Lavant) rides to work in a white limousine driven by his close friend and associate Céline (Edith Scob); Oscar's job, it seems, involves using makeup, elaborate costumes, and props to carry out a number of complex and unusual scenarios. Of these, one has the actor performing an action sequence and simulated sex with an actress on a soundstage while he's filmed by an off-camera director. The second sequence puts him in a sewer with Monsieur Merde, a character who first appeared in Carax's segment in the omnibus picture Tokyo!; here, Merde falls in love with a beautiful model (Eva Mendes) who accompanies him on a jaunt through a cemetery. Subsequent episodes cast Oscar in a deathbed melodrama, a gangster film, a musical alongside pop star Kylie Minogue, and much more. At one point in the picture, Carax implies that Oscar may be acting these scenes out for hidden cameras, which are webcasting the episodes for Internet surfers. An intriguing footnote: Movie buffs may experience some déjà vu while watching Scob in this film, as she's deliberately used to invoke her characterization from Georges Franju's 1960 horror classic Eyes without a Face, and at one point, even wears a facial mask similar to the one she donned in that picture. Holy Motors marked Carax's first feature since the 1999 Pola X. ~ Nathan Southern, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 115&nbsp;mins
