Babe is a 1995 comedy-drama film, co-written and directed by Chris Noonan. It is an adaptation of Dick King-Smith's 1983 novel The Sheep-Pig, also known as Babe: The Gallant Pig in the USA, which tells the story of a pig who wants to be a sheepdog. The main animal characters are played by a combination of real and animatronic pigs and Border Collies.
After seven years of development, Babe was filmed in Robertson, New South Wales, Australia. The talking-animal visual effects were done by Rhythm & Hues Studios and Jim Henson's Creature Shop.
The film was a box office success and received considerable acclaim from critics: it was nominated for seven Academy Awards including Best Picture, Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay, winning Best Visual Effects. It also won the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy and the Saturn Award for Best Fantasy Film.
Babe producer and co-writer George Miller directed a 1998 sequel, Babe: Pig in the City, which has received mixed reviews.
After a piglet's mother is taken away by humans to be slaughtered, the piglet, whose name is Babe, is picked out for a "guess the weight" booth at a county fair. Farmer Arthur Hoggett guesses his weight (16&#160;lbs., 2 oz.) and wins the pig. Babe is brought to his farm and allowed to stay with the female sheepdog, Fly (a Border Collie), and her pups. Maa, an elderly resident sheep, tells him to watch out for the dogs. A duck named Ferdinand, posing as a rooster in order to keep from being eaten, wakes the farm each morning by crowing. He persuades Babe to help him destroy the alarm clock because it threatens his mission. They succeed, but wake the Hoggetts' cat, Duchess, and accidentally destroy the living room, leaving the three covered in paint. Rex, Fly's mate and leader of the farm animals, sternly orders Babe to stay away from Ferdinand (who is now a fugitive) and the house.
Christmas time brings a visit from the Hoggetts' relatives. Babe is almost chosen for the Christmas dinner but a duck is picked instead after Farmer Hoggett remarks to his wife that they perhaps shouldn't kill the pig, as he may bring a prize at the next County Fair. They instead have Duck à l'Orange for Christmas dinner. Ferdinand comes out of hiding to explain that the duck on the table isn't him, but a female named Rosanna whom he was apparently friends with. Unable to cope with this kind of injustice, Ferdinand says goodbye to Babe and flies away, hoping to find some place where he will be safe from becoming some human's dinner. The day after Christmas, Babe alerts the farmer to some sheep rustlers who are taking sheep from the top field.
The next day, Hoggett sees Babe sort the hens, separating the brown ones from the white ones. Impressed, he takes the pig to the sheep fields along with Fly and Rex. Rex feels threatened by Babe when Hoggett tells Babe rather than Rex to herd the sheep, and is furious with Fly for helping him. Fly advises Babe to be rough and impose his will on the sheep, so he bites one of them, annoying Maa, who advises him to ask politely. The sheep cooperate, and Babe herds them out of their pen, impressing Farmer Hoggett and amazing the other dogs. Rex, however, sees Babe's actions as an insult to sheepdogs, and that night, he confronts Fly for "putting ideas" in Babe's head. Fly's right front leg is injured, and Hoggett is bitten by Rex when he tries to intervene, and he and Mrs. Hoggett glare at Rex, who is then chained to the dog house and sedated. It is now Babe's job to herd the sheep. Hoggett considers entering Babe in the sheepdog trials.
One morning, Babe suddenly hears the sounds of sheep. Babe runs out to the field and witnesses three feral dogs attacking the sheep. He scares them away but Maa has been mortally injured and dies from her wounds. Hoggett eventually arrives to see Babe standing over Maa with blood on his snout and thinks that he killed the sheep. As he prepares to shoot Babe, Fly tries talking to the sheep for the first time to find out what happened. She distracts Hoggett (and spares Babe) by barking long enough for Mrs. Hoggett to come out and tell how she heard from the police and the dogcatcher that neighboring farms had sheep killed by feral dogs.
When Mrs. Hoggett leaves on a trip for a few days, Hoggett enters Babe in the sheepdog trials under the name "Pig" without his wife's knowledge. That evening, it is so wet outside that Hoggett lets Babe inside the house along with Fly. But the Hoggetts' hostile cat scratches Babe when he attempts to talk to her, and she is thrown out onto the porch. Ferdinand returns from his self-imposed exile and laughs to see Babe inside resting by the fire and the cat outside in the rain. Duchess sneaks back into the house and takes vengeance on Babe by feigning contrition for scratching him, but then devastates him by revealing that humans eat pigs. Fly also confirms this, and the next morning discovers that Babe has run away. Rex and Fly alert Hoggett, and the three go searching for him; Rex eventually finds him in a graveyard and Hoggett brings him back home. Babe refuses to eat, despite encouragement from Rex, who has now softened his attitude toward the pig, even calling him his son. Hoggett gives him a drink in a baby bottle and sings "If I Had Words" to him, and eventually jigs for him. This restores Babe's faith in the farmer, and he begins eating.
At the trials the sheep refuse to listen to Babe, and Rex runs to the farm to find out what to do. The sheep give Rex a secret sheep password only for Babe's use and make Rex promise to treat the sheep better. The crowd laughs at the farmer showing a pig for the sheepdog contest, but using the password, Babe convinces the sheep to do what he asks, and they perform flawlessly. After getting perfect scores and the cheers and adoration of the crowd, Rex and Fly lick each other in victory, while Babe sits next to Hoggett, who tells him, "That'll do, Pig. That'll do."
Babe was very well received critically; it currently holds a 98% "Certified Fresh" approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes. It was also a box office success, grossing $254,134,910 worldwide.
It was nominated for seven Academy Awards, including Best Picture. It won the award for Best Visual Effects, defeating Apollo 13. In 2006, the American Film Institute named Babe #80 on its list of America's Most Inspiring Movies.
Due to its title, Babe was initially banned in Malaysia, although the ruling was overturned almost a year later and the film was released direct-to-VHS.
Babe grossed $36,776,544 at the box office in Australia.
A young pig fights convention to become a sheep dog -- or, rather, sheep pig -- in this charming Australian family film, which became an unexpected international success due to superior special effects and an intelligent script. The title refers to the name bestowed on a piglet soon after his separation from his family, when he finds himself on a strange farm. Confused and sad, Babe is adopted by a friendly dog and slowly adjusts to his new home. Discovering that the fate of most pigs is the dinner table, Babe devotes himself to becoming a useful member of the farm by trying to learn how to herd sheep, despite the skepticism of the other animals and the kindly but conventional Farmer Hoggett (James Cromwell). Because technically impeccable animatronics and computer graphics allow the farm animals to converse easily among themselves, first-time director Chris Noonan can treat the film's menagerie as actual characters, playing scene not for cuteness but for real emotions. The result is often surprisingly touching, with Noonan and George Miller's script, based on Dick King-Smith's children's book and, indirectly, a true story, seamlessly combining gentle whimsy and sincere feeling. These same qualities are embodied by in Cromwell's beautifully understated performance as Farmer Hoggett, which anchors the film. Despite its unlikely premise and low profile, Babe's inspirational story was embraced by audiences and critics, and the movie became an international sleeper that won an Academy Award nomination for Best Picture. It was followed in 1999 by the less successful Babe: Pig in the City. ~ Judd Blaise, All Movie GuideThis rental contains both Babe and Babe: Pig in the CitySee All Babe Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 188&nbsp;mins
