The Lost World: Jurassic Park, (also known as The Lost World: Jurassic Park II), is a 1997 American science fiction adventure film directed by Steven Spielberg. The film was produced by Gerald R. Molen and Colin Wilson. The screenplay was written by David Koepp, loosely based on Michael Crichton's 1995 novel The Lost World. The film stars Jeff Goldblum, Julianne Moore, Vince Vaughn, Pete Postlethwaite, Richard Schiff, Arliss Howard, Thomas F. Duffy, Vanessa Lee Chester, and Richard Attenborough.
Four years after the events of Jurassic Park, dinosaurs have secretly survived and been allowed to roam free on a deserted island. In the time between the two films, John Hammond loses control of his company, InGen, to his nephew, Peter Ludlow. Ludlow assembles a team to bring the animals back to the mainland to bring in revenue and restore the company. Hammond sees a chance to redeem himself for his past mistakes and sends an expedition led by Dr. Ian Malcolm to reach the island before InGen's team can get there. The two groups confront each other in the face of extreme danger and must team up for their own survival.
After the original book's release and the first film's success, Crichton was pressured not only by fans, but Spielberg himself, for a sequel novel. After the book was published in 1995, production began on a film sequel. The Lost World's plot and imagery were made darker than that of the first film in order to please fans. Despite mixed reviews, it was a box office success, grossing $618 million worldwide.
Four years after the incident at Jurassic Park, a British wealthy couple and their daughter hold a picnic on Isla Sorna. The girl wanders off and is attacked and injured by a pack of Compsognathus.
Ian Malcolm publicized the incident at Jurassic Park, but disbelief has destroyed his academic reputation, and legal action has prevented him from getting any evidence. John Hammond, having lost control of InGen to his unscrupulous nephew, Peter Ludlow, and as a result of the family's accident, summons Ian to his home and tells him about Isla Sorna. Isla Sorna, also known as "Site B", is the island where the dinosaurs were engineered and nurtured for a few months, before being moved to Isla Nublar, the park's location. He explains that after Jurassic Park was shut down, a hurricane destroyed the containment facilities on Isla Sorna, and the dinosaurs have been living free in the wild ever since. Hammond asks Malcolm to join a team that will travel to Site B to document the dinosaurs in their natural habitat to rally public support and prevent Ludlow from exploiting the site for InGen and leave it as a nature preserve. Ian initially refuses, but agrees after learning that his girlfriend, paleontologist Sarah Harding, is part of the team and is already there, while the others will meet her after three days.
Ian meets the team of people he will join with: equipment specialist and engineer Eddie Carr, and documentary producer Nick Van Owen. Shortly after arriving on the island, they find Sarah and discover that Ian's adopted daughter, Kelly, has stowed away on the trailer. Ian tries to get Kelly home, but they're interrupted by the arrival of an InGen team of mercenaries, hunters, and paleontologists led by Ludlow, which they spot chasing and capturing several dinosaur species such as Parasaurolophus, Pachycephalosaurus, Gallimimus and Mamenchisaurus, for another park in San Diego. Tracker Roland Tembo wishes to hunt and kill an adult male Tyrannosaurus by luring it to the cries of its injured offspring. That night, Nick and Sarah sneak into the InGen camp to free the dinosaurs, which causes a huge commotion as a Triceratops destroys the camp and the dinosaurs escape.
During the commotion, Nick frees the baby Tyrannosaurus and takes it to the trailer so Sarah can set its broken leg. Ian takes Kelly to the high hide, a lift Eddie built to keep them safe above the trees. Ian, after trying and failing to contact the trailer via phone, returns on foot. Shortly after he arrives, two adult Tyrannosaurus find the trailer. The team gives the infant back, but the two adults begin pushing the trailer over the cliff with the team inside. Eddie leaves Kelly in the "high hide" and returns to the trailer in one of the SUvs. With the adults temporarily gone, Eddie is able to tie a rope to a tree trunk and send it down to Ian, Sarah, and Nick to grab onto. Eddie then ties a cable to the trailer to pull it back over the edge. He partially succeeds, but is attacked and eaten when the Tyrannosaurus return. The trailer and the SUV fall off the cliff, but Ian, Sarah, and Nick are rescued by the InGen team. With both groups' communications equipment destroyed in the attacks, they team up to reach the old InGen compound's radio station.
Roland's deputy Dieter Stark is attacked and killed by a pack of Compsognathus, His friend Carter fails to hear his screams because he was listening to headphones. At night, the two Tyrannosaurs come across the group's camp, having followed the scent of the infant's blood on Sarah's jacket. The female pokes its head inside Sarah and Kelly's tent while they hide under their sleeping bags. Carter awakens, and shouts upon seeing the Tyrannosaurs, causing the entire camp to awaken and run away, while Malcolm stays low and hides. The female gives chase to the camp, while Roland stays behind and manages to tranquilize the male. Carter is trampled to death by the female, and the rest of the group disbands into the thick trees, with Sarah, Kelly, Nick, and Burke hiding in a waterfall. A snake crawls into Burke's shirt, causing him to panic, and he stumbles too close to the Tyrannosaur, allowing it to grab him and eat him. The rest of the team, including Roland's hunting partner Ajay, exit the thick trees into a field of tall grass near the compound, and are killed by a large pack of Velociraptors. Ian meets back up with Nick, Sarah, and Kelly, and they continue on toward the compound, along the way finding Ajay's bag containing the support team's radio frequency. Upon reaching the compound, Nick breaks off to find the communications room, and Ian, Sarah and Kelly are attacked by three raptors, and take refuge in a shed. After barely escaping from them, they reunite with Nick and fly away in a rescue helicopter. While flying away, they spot the caged adult Tyrannosaurus and Ludlow preparing to ship it and its baby back to the mainland.
A cargo ship carries the Tyrannosaurus back to the mainland, but, upon reaching San Diego, crashes into the dock. Ludlow and several guards investigate the boat and find the crew dead. A guard opens the cargo hold, thinking there might be some crew members below, inadvertently releasing the Tyrannosaurus, which escapes into the city and goes on a rampage, smashing cars and causing damage to buildings while terrorizing civilians fleeing from the chaos. Realizing that the creature will likely come for its infant, Ian and Sarah learn from Ludlow that the infant is already at the park. They rush to the park to get the baby, and use it to lure the adult back to the boat. When they arrive, Ludlow calls a helicopter to kill the adult Tyrannosaurus. Ian and Sarah leave the infant in the cargo hold leave, after which Ludlow goes on the ship himself to retrieve it. The adult arrives while he is still on board, trapping him in the cargo hold and injuring him as he tries to escape. The infant leaps on him and kills him while the adult watches. Sarah finds the transport crew's tranquilizer gun, and sedates the adult Tyrannosaurus before the helicopter shooter can kill it, while Ian seals the cargo hold doors.
The next day, Ian, Sarah and Kelly watch television reports of the cargo ship on its way back to Isla Sorna, surrounded by a convoy of naval vessels. During the program, they see an interview with Hammond, who explains that the American and Costa Rican governments have agreed to declare the island a nature preserve so the dinosaurs can live free of human interference, and adds "Life will find a way," paraphrasing something Malcolm told him on Isla Nublar four years earlier.
After the release of the novel Jurassic Park, Michael Crichton was pressured by fans for a sequel novel. Having never written a sequel, he initially refused, until the first film's success prompted Steven Spielberg himself to request one. After the book was published in 1995, production on the sequel film began in September 1996.
The Lost World was filmed in Eureka, San Diego, Burbank, and Kauai. Although the ending takes place in San Diego, only one sequence is actually shot there, where the InGen helicopter flies over the wharf and banks towards the city. The other sequences were all shot in Burbank.
Spielberg suggested the Tyrannosaurus rex's attack through San Diego be added to the film story, inspired by a similar attack scene of a Brontosaurus in London in the 1925 film adaptation of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's 1912 novel The Lost World.
Many elements from the original novel that weren't used in the first film were used for The Lost World. The opening sequence of a vacationing family's young daughter being attacked by a group of Compsognathus was similar to the novel's opening scene, and Dieter Stark's death is analogous to John Hammond's compy-related death in the novel. Also, Nick, Sarah, Kelly, and Burke being trapped behind a waterfall by one of the T. rexes is taken from the novel, where Tim and Lex are trapped behind a man-made waterfall with the T. rex attempting to eat them, and Roland Tembo shoots the T. rex with tranquilizer in the same way that Robert Muldoon did in the novel.
According to Jack Horner, part of the waterfall scene was written in as a favor for him by Spielberg. Burke greatly resembles Horner's rival Robert Bakker. In real life, Bakker argues for a predatory Tyrannosaurus while Horner views it as primarily a scavenger. So Spielberg wrote Burke into this part to have him killed by the T. rex as a favor for Horner. After the film came out, Bakker, who recognized himself in Burke and loved it, actually sent Horner a message saying "See, I told you T. rex was a hunter!".
The Lost World was released on May 23, 1997. The film made its VHS and LaserDisc debut on November 4, 1997. The DVD, first released on October 10, 2000, includes deleted scenes involving Hammond's ouster from InGen that were incorporated into the Fox broadcast television premiere of the film. However, the deleted scenes are included separate of the actual movie, and are of lesser quality than the corresponding scenes from the broadcast version, despite being released some time after the broadcast. The film's Blu-ray version, released in 2011, also includes the deleted scenes, but they're now of even lesser quality than the DVD version. Universal Studios Home Entertainment, Amblin Entertainment and director Steven Spielberg have all declined comment on the matter.
The film was also released in a package with Jurassic Park. The DVD has also been re-released with both sequels on December 11, 2001 as the Jurassic Park Trilogy and as the Jurassic Park Adventure Pack on November 29, 2005. The soundtrack was released on May 20, 1997. On the same day it was first released to DVD, a deluxe limited edition box set was released that included Jurassic Park and The Lost World, soundtracks for both films with packaging made exclusively for the set, two lenticulars, eight 8x10 stills (4 from each film), and a certificate of authenticity signed by all three producers of the set, all inside a collector case.
Following four years of growing anticipation and hype, The Lost World broke many box office records upon its release. It took in $72,132,785 on its opening weekend ($92.6 million for the four-day Memorial Day holiday) in the U.S., which was the biggest opening weekend at the time, surpassing the previous record-holder Batman Forever at $52.8 million. It held onto this record for four and a half years, until the release of Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone in November 2001. The Lost World took the record for highest single-day box office take of $26,083,950 on May 25, a record held until the release of Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace. It also became the fastest film to pass the $100 million mark, achieving the feat in just six days. However, its total box office gross fell below the total of the original film. With grossing $229,086,679 domestically and $389,552,320 internationally, the film ended up grossing $618,638,999 worldwide, becoming the second highest grossing film of 1997 behind Titanic.
The Lost World received generally mixed reviews from critics. At Rotten Tomatoes, it currently holds a 52% "rotten" score with 33 out of 63 reviewers giving it a positive review. It also has a 59100 on Metacritic, indicating "mixed or average reviews." Roger Ebert, who gave the first film three stars, gave the The Lost World only two, writing that "It can be said that the creatures in this film transcend any visible signs of special effects and seem to walk the earth, but the same realism isn't brought to the human characters, who are bound by plot conventions and action formulas." Conversly, Kevin Thomas of the Los Angeles Times saw improved character development over the original, saying, "It seemed such a mistake in Jurassic Park to sideline early on its most interesting character, the brilliant, free-thinking and outspoken theorist Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) with a broken leg, but in its most inspired stroke, The Lost World brings back Malcolm and places him front and center," calling it "a pleasure to watch such wily pros as Goldblum and Attenborough spar with each other with wit and assurance." The dinosaurs were even more developed as characters, with Stephen Holden of the New York Times saying, "The Lost World, unlike Jurassic Park, humanizes its monsters in a way that E.T. would understand." Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly gave the film a B grade; he remarked, "Mr. T-Rex was cool in the first Spielberg flick, sure, but it wasn't until  San Diego that things got crazy-cool. It's the old 'tree falling in the woods' conundrum: Unless your giant monster is causing massive property damage, can you really call it a giant monster?"
Spielberg confessed that during production he became increasingly disenchanted with the film, admitting, "I beat myself up... growing more and more impatient with myself... It made me wistful about doing a talking picture, because sometimes I got the feeling I was just making this big silent-roar movie... I found myself saying, 'Is that all there is? It's not enough for me.'"

Just when you'd think that scientists would realize dinosaurs and humans don't mix, along comes The Lost World: Jurassic Park to prove you wrong. In this sequel, John Hammond (Richard Attenborough) summons chaos theorist and onetime colleague Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) to his home with some startling information -- while nearly everything at his Jurassic Park had been destroyed, engineers were also operating a second site, where other dinosaurs, resurrected through DNA cloning technology, had been kept in hiding. Hammond has learned the dinosaurs on the second island are alive and well and even breeding; Hammond wants Malcolm to observe and document the reptiles before Hammond's financiers can get to them. Malcolm declares he had enough of the dinosaurs the first time out, but decides to make the trip when he finds out that his girlfriend, paleontologist Sarah Harding (Julianne Moore), is already there. However, Ian and Sarah aren't the only visitors expected on the island; a camera crew led by ecological activist Nick Van Owen (Vince Vaughn) is on the way, as is Roland Tembo (Pete Postlethwaite), a world-class wild game hunter who is supposed to round up the dinosaurs and who hopes to bag a prehistoric trophy for himself in the process. This sequel to Jurassic Park boasted even more impressive special effects than the first film, though the acting and screenplay aren't always at the same level. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All The Lost World: Jurassic Park Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 129&nbsp;mins
