Jacob Two Two Meets The Hooded Fang is the title of two films based on a novel of the same name by Mordecai Richler.
Jacob Two Two Meets The Hooded Fang is about a young boy who strives to be heard. He is nicknamed "Two-Two" for having to say things twice to be heard. One day, he decided to buy the groceries for his parents. There is a misunderstanding by the clerk, so Jacob finds himself in court. He is sentenced Two Years, Two months, two weeks, two minutes and five seconds in the Children's Prison hundreds of miles away from civilization.
It is a dark, dirty dungeon-like place where the children work and are kept in cells. There are the three head characters, Master Fish, a fishhuman, Mistress Fowl, a bird like woman and the Hooded Fang himself. They also have green henchmen who spray "slime resistors" at the children to prevent them escaping. Two child agents try to help him out, as the children also come up with a plan for escape.

Based on noted Montreal author Mordecai Richler's classic children's adventure of the same name, the film is about a boy named Jacob (Max Morrow) who has to say everything twice to be heard, simply because he is the youngest of five children. Desperately needing to be taken seriously, he offers to go to the grocery store for his Dad, embarking on his first solo journey. The quest goes horribly wrong when he loses his nerve and runs off, only to bump into a ten-pound hanging salami. He wakes up to find himself in court charged with insulting a grown-up. The Singing Judge sentences Jacob to the children's prison on Slimer's Island. The fog-bound and crocodile infested prison is presided over by the fearsome Hooded Fang (Gary Busey). Help is supposed to be on its way in the form of the heroic Child Power Masters. When that is delayed, Jacob Two Two hatches a cunning plan to take on the Hooded Fang himself. Fraught with childhood fantasies and fears, the film encourages children to feel strong in the threatening world of adults. ~ Gönül Dönmez-Colin, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 94&nbsp;mins
