The Man with Rain in His Shoes is a 1998 Spanish-British romantic comedy film, written by Spanish singer-songwriter Rafa Russo, directed by Spanish filmmaker María Ripoll (in her directing debut) and starring Lena Headey, Douglas Henshall, Penélope Cruz, Mark Strong and Elizabeth McGovern. The film was released under the titles Twice Upon a Yesterday in the United States and If Only... in France, the United Kingdom, and Australia.
Victor (Henshall) is an actor in London who is desperate to stop his ex-girlfriend, Sylvia (Headey), to whom he was unfaithful, from marrying another man. After meeting two mysterious dustmen, he is given the chance to travel back in time and relive his romance. However, he finds that things develop differently this time around—Sylvia has an affair with Dave (Strong), and she leaves him.
The soundtrack features songs performed by Alpha Blondy, Nigel and Lewis, Salif Keita, and Susana Martins. The film's writer Rafa Russo also performs his own composition "Friends Are Friends".
The film won Best Screenplay 1998 at the Montreal World Film Festival, the Gran Angular Award 1998 at the Catalonian International Film Festival and the Bronze Precolumbian Circle at the 1999 Bogota Film Festival.

Maria Ripoll made her feature directorial debut with this witty Spanish-British romantic comedy, set in London, where actor Victor (Scottish actor Douglas Henshall) is drunk and upset over former girlfriend Sylvia (Leana Headley) and her upcoming marriage in 48 hours to Dave (Mark Strong). In the rain, the wet and drunk Victor meets two Spanish sanitary workers, Don Miguel (Eusebio Lazaro) and Rafael (Gustavo Salmeron), and their Spanish poetry quotes cue special effects and time travel. Tossed back in time, Victor is now able to begin a relationship replay with Sylvia, so he immediately begins an effort to keep her from meeting Dave. The situation gets sticky, however, when he drops into a local pub and meets gorgeous barmaid Louise (Spanish actress Penelope Cruz). London locations show activities during the Notting Hill carnival. Shown at the 1998 Cannes Film Festival. ~ Bhob Stewart, RoviSee All Twice Upon a Yesterday Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 91&nbsp;mins
