Make Mine Music is an animated feature produced by Walt Disney and released to theatres on April 20, 1946. It is the 8th animated feature in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series.
During the Second World War, much of Walt Disney's staff was drafted into the army, and those that remained were called upon by the U.S. government to make training and propaganda films. As a result, the studio was littered with unfinished story ideas. In order to keep the feature film division alive during this difficult time, the studio released six package films including this one, made up of various unrelated segments set to music. This is the third package film, following Saludos Amigos and The Three Caballeros.
The musical director was Al Sack.
The film was entered into the 1946 Cannes Film Festival.
This particular film has ten such segments.
This segment featured popular radio vocal group, King's Men singing the story of a Hatfields and McCoys-style feud in the mountains broken up when two young people from each side fell in love. It was edited out in the NTSC home media version because it had parts too intense for children, while in the PAL version, it was kept.
This segment featured animation originally intended for Fantasia using the Claude Debussy musical composition Clair de Lune. However, by the time Make Mine Music was released Clair de Lune was replaced by the new song Blue Bayou, performed by the Ken Darby Singers. However, the original version of the segment still survives.
This segment was one of two segments to which Benny Goodman contributed: an innovative shot in which a pencil drew the action as it was happening, and in which 1940s teens were swept away by popular music.
This segment was a ballad of lost love, sung by Andy Russell.
This segment featured Jerry Colonna, reciting the poem also titled "Casey at the Bat" by Ernest Thayer, about the arrogant ballplayer whose cockiness was his undoing.
This segment featured two live-action ballet dancers, David Lichine and Tania Riabouchinskaya, moving in silhouette with animated backgrounds and characters. Dinah Shore sang the title song.
This segment was an animated dramatization of the 1936 musical composition by Sergei Prokofiev, with narration by actor Sterling Holloway. A Russian boy named Peter set off into the forest to hunt the wolf with his animal friends: a bird named Sasha, a duck named Sonia, and a cat named Ivan. Each character is represented with a specific musical accompaniment as follows:
Peter: String Quartet
This segment again featured Benny Goodman and his orchestra as four anthropomorphized instruments who paraded through a musical playground.
This segment told the romantic story of two hats who fell in love in a department store window. When Alice was sold, Johnny devoted himself to finding her again. They eventually, by pure chance, meet up again and live happily ever after together, side by side.The Andrews Sisters provided the vocals. Like the other segments, it was later released theatrically. It was released as such on May 21, 1954.
The bittersweet finale about a Sperm Whale with incredible musical talent and his dreams of singing Grand Opera. A legend is spread throughout the city that there is an opera-singing whale, but as it is seemingly disproven, it is assumed that the whale has swallowed an opera singer who is the one the sailors are actually hearing sing. The short-sighted impresario Tetti-Tatti believes this and sets out to destroy Willy, the newspapers announcing that he was going to see. Whitey, Willy's seagull friend, excitedly brings Willy the newspaper, all of his friends believing that this is his big chance, so he goes out to meet the boat and sing for Tetti-Tatti. Of course he finds them, and upon hearing Willy sing, Tetti-Tatti comes to believe that Willy has swallowed not one, but THREE singers (due to his having three uvulae), and chases him with a harpoon on a boat with a judge, a prosecutor, and a clerk from the Supreme Court. Upon hearing the whale sing, the crewmen from the court try to stop Tetti-Tatti from arresting the whale, as they want to continue listening to him sing, even to the point of tying up Tetti-Tatti and sitting on him, however he still manages to escape and fire the harpoon gun because he finds Willie accused of singing opera. In the end, Willie was found guilty and thrown into prison for twenty years, but the narrator then explains that Willy's voice will sing on in Heaven. Nelson Eddy narrated and performed all the voices in this segment. As Willie the Whale, Eddy sang all three male voices in the first part of the Sextet from Donizetti's opera, Lucia di Lammermoor.
Make Mine Music was originally released on laserdisc in Japan on October 21, 1985, and on VHS and DVD on June 6, 2000 under the Walt Disney Gold Classic Collection title. This release was edited to remove "The Martins and the Coys", because it had "graphic gunplay not suitable for children." Before, two of its segments (Willie the Operatic Whale, and Peter and the Wolf) were released on home video indepent of the original feature, in company with original animated shorts in the 1980s and 1990s. The Japanese laserdisc includes all the cuts made to the VHSDVD versions. Europan Region 2 DVDs also include the unedited feature. No unedited release has been scheduled in America. It is the only film in the Disney Animated Classics canon never to see a release on Region 4 DVD in Australia.

In his first postwar animated feature, Walt Disney attempted to repeat the Fantasia formula, substituting "pop" music for the Classics. Make Mine Music consists of ten unrelated cartoon vignettes, each one featuring a popular recording artist. "A Rustic Ballad" is the story of the Martin-Coy hillbilly feud, narrated musically by the King's Men. "A Tone Poem" is an impressionistic interpretation of the song "Blue Bayou", sung by the Ken Darby chorus and rendered artistically by Disney's ace animators. "A Jazz Interlude", done in "sketchbook" style, is performed by Benny Goodman and His Orchestra, and features the jitterbug specialty "All the Cats Join In". Jerry Colonna is next on the program in "A Musical Recitation", offering his own inimitable version of "Casey at the Bat". "Ballad Ballet" features Ballet Russe stars Tatiana Riabouchinska and David Lichine, dancing to Dinah Shore's vocalization of "Two Silhouettes". "A Fairy Tale with Music" turns out to be Prokofiev's "Peter and the Wolf", narrated by Sterling Holloway. Next, Benny Goodman and company return with a surreal visualization of "After You've Gone", followed by "A Love Story", which features the Andrews Sisters' rendition of the ballad "Johnny Fedora and Alice Blue Bonnet." The hilarious "Opera Pathetique" finale finds Nelson Eddy narrating the story of Willy, "The Whale Who Wanted to Sing at the Met". Better in its individual components than its sum total, Make Mine Music was drubbed by critics, who felt that Disney had abandoned his "artistic" aspirations in favor of crass commercialism, but performed reasonably well at the box office, inspiring several more "omnibus" animated features. In later years, the ten individual segments would be released as separate short subjects, both theatrically and as episodes of Disney's various TV series (where the original narration was often supplanted by the unfunny interpolations of Professor Ludwig Von Drake). ~ Hal Erickson, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 67&nbsp;mins
