Thale is a 2012 Norwegian supernatural horror film directed and written by Aleksander L. Nordaas. The film was released in Norway on February 17, 2012, and stars Silje Reinåmo, Erlend Nervold, and Jon Sigve Skard. Thale focuses on two crime scene cleaners who discover a beautiful huldra held captive in the remains of a crime scene. American film rights for Thale have been purchased by XLrator Media, with the intent of releasing the movie in the United States in fall of 2013.
Elvis and Leo run a crime scene cleanup business where they're used to cleaning up after gruesome deaths. They're hired to clean up after a death where only half of the body has been found, but soon find Thale, a huldra that appears to be incapable of human speech. She's been held captive there for a long time and something or someone wants her back.
Filming for Thale began in 2009, with the filming finishing in 2011. Nordaas has stated that he wanted to make a film about the mythic huldra due to it being part of the folklore of his country. He filmed Thale on a limited budget, serving as the movie's writer, producer, cinematographer, editor and camera operator, as well as shooting the film in his father's basement.
Reinåmo commented that she found the role of challenging and that the character's nudity made her "very vulnerable and naked, in the true sense".
Reception for the film was mixed, with Wired praising the film while a reviewer for the AV Club criticizing it for taking too long to "get where it should be". Dread Central panned Thale as being "a mediocre, yawn-worthy disappointment" while stating that Nordaas "does a competent job directing an ambitious low-budget indie creature feature with very little money". In contrast, Variety gave a positive review for the film, saying that the production values "help maintain the creepy feel that clings to "Thale" like the sweat that seems to be forever pouring off Elvis' forehead". Empire says "Beautifully enigmatic and eerie"  and Ain't It Cool News claims that it's "A truly unique and amazing film". "Thale" also screened at Toronto International Film Festival.

Two crime-scene cleaners find a Huldra (a mythical creature with the body of a beautiful woman and a cow's tail) locked in the cellar of a secluded home, and realize that someone is coming to claim her in this dark fantasy thriller from Norway. Longtime friends Elvis (Erlend Nervold) and Leo (Jon Sigve Skard) have been dispatched to a house deep in the forest to clean up the body of the victime of an animal attack when they discover a secret door in the home. Upon investigating, they find that the door leads to a hidden laboratory in which a fearful woman named Thale (Silje Reinåmo) lies bound in a bathtub, and sustained by feeding tubes. Meanwhile, the audio diaries left by her caretaker offer clues to her mysterious origins. Though the situation turns frightening when a strange figure shows up determined to claim Thale, Elvis and Leo are shocked to find that she is far more powerful than appearances suggest. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 77&nbsp;mins
