Bruce Almighty is a 2003 American fantasy comedy film directed by Tom Shadyac and written by Steve Koren, Mark O'Keefe and Steve Oedekerk. It stars Jim Carrey as Bruce Nolan, a down-on-his-luck TV reporter who complains to God that he isn't doing his job correctly, and is then offered the chance to try being God himself for one week. Morgan Freeman, Jennifer Aniston, Steve Carell, Catherine Bell, Lisa Ann Walter, and Philip Baker Hall also star, while Tony Bennett makes a cameo appearance.
This is Shadyac and Carrey's third collaboration after working together on Shadyac's first film, Ace Ventura, Pet Detective, which also launched Carrey's career, and Liar Liar.
When released in American theaters in May 2003, it took the #1 spot at the box office, grossing $85.89 million - higher than the release of Pearl Harbor, making it the highest-rated Memorial Day weekend opening of any film in motion picture history (until the release of X-Men: The Last Stand in 2006). The movie surprised media analysts when it beat The Matrix Reloaded after its first week of release. By the time it left theaters, it took in a United States domestic total of over $242 million and $484 million worldwide. The film has gone on to become a cult film.
Bruce Nolan (Jim Carrey) is a television field reporter for Eyewitness News on WKBW-TV in Buffalo, New York but desires to be the news anchorman. When he is passed over for the promotion in favour of his co-worker rival, Evan Baxter (Steve Carell), he becomes furious and rages during an interview at Niagara Falls, his resulting actions leading to his suspension from the station, followed by a series of misfortunes such as getting assaulted by a gang of thugs for standing up for a blind man they are beating up as he later on meets with them again and asks them to apologize for beating him up. Bruce complains to God that He's "the one that should be fired".
Bruce later receives a message in his newspager, directing him to a empty warehouse where God (Morgan Freeman) appears to him. God offers to give Bruce his powers to prove that he is doing the job correctly. God tells Bruce that he cannot tell others he has God's powers, nor can he use the powers to alter free will. Bruce is initially jubilant, using his newfound abilities for personal gain, such as getting his job back, impressing his girlfriend Grace Connelly (Jennifer Aniston), breathing insects onto the gang that assaulted him and making a monkey come out of one gang member's rear. Bruce finds ways of using the powers to cause miraculous things to occur at otherwise mundane events that he is covering, such as discovering Jimmy Hoffa's body, framing two reporters (in revenge for mocking him for his live rage at Niagara falls) for illegal drug possession, or causing an iron meteor to harmlessly land near a cook-off, earning him the name "Mr. Exclusive". Bruce then gets his revenge by causing Evan to embarrass himself on-air, which results in Evan being sent back to his reporting job and Bruce being installed as the new anchor.
In the meantime, Bruce continues to hear several voices in his head that (at first) he cannot understand. He later re-encounters God on Mount Everest, who explains that the voices are prayers, meant for God, that Bruce must deal with. He also confronts Bruce on using his powers for personal gain and not for helping people. Bruce creates a computerized email-like system to receive the prayers and respond. Predictably, he finds that the influx is far too great for him to handle - even though God has stated that Bruce is only receiving prayers from the Buffalo area. In order to save himself time, Bruce sets the program to automatically answer every prayer as Yes for the duration of his stint as God.
Bruce attends a party celebrating his promotion. When Grace arrives, she finds Bruce and his co-anchor Susan Ortega (Catherine Bell) kissing, after she had forcefully come on to him, and flees, refusing to believe his pleas that it was a misunderstanding. Bruce follows her, trying to use his powers to convince her to stay, but cannot influence her free will. As Bruce looks around, he realizes that the city has fallen into chaos due to his actions: parts of the city believe the Apocalypse is nearly at hand because of the meteor strike at the cook-off, while a large number of people, all having prayed to win the multi-million dollar lottery are now rioting as a result of finding out that they've all won, reducing their prize to just a few dollars. Bruce returns to God, who explains that he can't solve all the problems and that Bruce must figure out a way himself. Bruce returns to his computer system and goes about answering prayers as best he can. He then resigns his short-lived anchorman career and informs Evan that he will be given back the job. When Grace moves in with her sister, Bruce gets curious about her prayers and, reading through them, finds a prayer asking for Bruce's success and well-being. As he reads it, another prayer from Grace arrives, asking not to be in love with Bruce anymore.
Saddened, Bruce walks alone on a highway in a thunderstorm. He asks God to take back the powers and to remove his fate from his own hands. Bruce is suddenly struck by a truck and, upon regaining consciousness, finds himself in a white void. God appears, and asks Bruce what he really wants; Bruce admits that he only wants to make sure Grace finds a man that would make her happy. God agrees, and Bruce finds himself bruised and bandaged in the hospital, shortly after having been near-miraculously resuscitated by the doctors. Grace arrives and the two rekindle their relationship (while they hug, Bruce mutters to God, "Now You're just showing off."), with Bruce and Grace later becoming engaged. After his recovery, Bruce returns to his field reporting but takes more pleasure in the simple stories and interviews. The film ends with him doing an item at the same bakers shop he was at in the beginning - this time his charm and enthusiasm causes his colleagues, Evan and Grace to break spontaneously into joyful applause, and then the beggar whom Bruce encountered several times previously finally reveals himself to be God.
The film received mixed reviews, with a score of 49% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 181 reviews and a weighted average score of 46 out of 100 on Metacritic. It received a B rating at Box Office Mojo and a score of 6.6 on Internet Movie Database. The film took nearly $243 million at the box office, making it Carrey's most successful film since 2000's How the Grinch Stole Christmas (also released by Universal).
Original screenwriters Mark O'Keefe and Steve Koren wrote Bruce Almighty as an original spec script and put it on the open market. Universal Studios immediately bought the original script. As with many blockbuster films, several sources came forward seeking post-success credit.
The film was banned in Egypt due to pressure from Islamic religious circuits who objected to the portrayal of God as a visually ordinary man. The ban in Malaysia and the ban in Egypt were eventually lifted after the Censorship Board gave it the "18PL" rating (suitable for adult viewers only for a combination of two or more of the given parental ratings). Also, since God contacts Bruce using an actual phone number rather than a number in the standard fictional 555 telephone exchange, several people and groups sharing this number subsequently received hundreds of phone calls from people wanting to talk to God. The producers note that the number chosen was not in use in the area code (716, which was never specified on screen) the film is set in, but did not check anywhere else. The home video and television versions changed it to the fictional 555.
On June 22, 2007, a sequel to Bruce Almighty entitled Evan Almighty was released, with Steve Carell reprising to his role as Evan Baxter and Morgan Freeman returning to his role as God. Although Shadyac returned to direct the sequel, neither Carrey nor Aniston were involved with the film, though Carrey's character, Bruce, is mentioned in the film's teaser trailer. The sequel was not as well received as the predecessor, being given a 23% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a rating of 37100 on Metacritic.
On January 12, 2012, a true sequel to Bruce Almighty was announced starring Jim Carrey. Variety says that studio heads are holding talks with screenwriters Andrew Mogel and Jarrad Paul to script the Bruce Almighty sequel, with the intent of bringing Carrey back as the titular character. Mogel and Paul were co-writers of the 2008 Carrey film Yes Man.
The soundtrack was released on June 3, 2003 by Varèse Sarabande. Tracks 9-14 are from the score composed by John Debney, performed by the Hollywood Studio Symphony (conducted by Pete Anthony) with Brad Dechter and Sandy De Crescent.
3.http:www.guardian.co.ukfilm2012jan10jim-carrey-bruce-almighty-sequel?newsfeed=true
After a bad day at work, a man suddenly gets a new job -- as the world's new Heavenly Father -- in this comedy. Bruce Nolan (Jim Carrey) is a television reporter working in Buffalo, NY, who has been growing increasingly dissatisfied with his existence, and after an especially bad day, he flies into a rage and curses God for making his life miserable. To Bruce's great surprise, the Supreme Being Himself (Morgan Freeman) appears, and tries to convince Bruce of the enormity of his task. Bruce, however, isn't buying it, so God gives him a chance to find out what he's up against; God bestows all of his powers on Bruce for a week, to see how he'd handle things. At first, Bruce has a great time bending the world around him to his will, much to the puzzlement of his girlfriend, Grace (Jennifer Aniston), but after six days God stops by to remind Bruce he hasn't done much to make the Earth a better place. Disappointed, God presents Bruce with an ultimatum -- he has one day to improve the world in a concrete way, or God will toss the planet back into the void. Bruce Almighty was directed by Tom Shadyac, who previously teamed with Jim Carrey for Liar, Liar and Ace Ventura: Pet Detective. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All Bruce Almighty Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 102&nbsp;mins
