The Sasquatch Gang (also known as The Sasquatch Dumpling Gang) is a 2006 comedy film written and directed by Tim Skousen, the first assistant director on Napoleon Dynamite. The film was shot in Oregon in locations such as the forests of rural parts of Clackamas County and a dirt track speedway in Banks.
The six-week shoot was completed in the summer of 2005. The film premiered in January 2006 at the Slamdance Film Festival, where it won the Audience Award. It was also shown at the HBO US Comedy Arts Festival in Aspen, picking up 2 awards. One for Justin Long for Best Actor and Tim Skousen Best Director. It also showed at the Waterfront Film Festival, New Zealand Film Festival, Sidewalk Film Festival, and Vail Film Festival. The film opened in limited release in the United States on November 30, 2007. The film was released on DVD March 25, 2008.
The film was rated PG-13 by the MPAA for "crude humor and language".
Young sci-fifantasy enthusiast Gavin Gore (Jeremy Sumpter) and his ragtag group of nerd friends, girlfriend Sophie Suchowski (Addie Land), swordsman Hobie Plumber (Hubbel Palmer), and young Maynard Keyes (Rob Pinkston) stumble upon some "large tracks" and a "big ole sasquatch dumplin'" whilst walking some trails in the nearby woods. Unbeknownst to the friends, two of Gavin's redneck neighbors, Zerk Wilder (Justin Long) and Shirts Joachim (Joey Kern) planted some fake evidence as a plan to gain profits and pay off Zerk's credit card bill. Soon the publicity stunt gains the attention of a local Sasquatch "expert" (Carl Weathers).
As a trio of fantasy-obsessed, sword-fighting geeks attempt to prove that the giant tracks discovered deep in the forest offer undisputed proof that Bigfoot truly exists, a stoned-out bully and his best friend scheme to profit from their elaborate prank before an overzealous Sasquatch hunter arrives to blow the whole scam sky-high. His beloved Pontiac Firebird threatened with repossession by the bank, mullet-haired menace Zerk (Justin Long) convinces his best friend, Shirts (Joey Kern), to help raise money to save the car by selling plaster casts of fake Bigfoot tracks on the Internet. When role-playing dweebs Gavin (Jeremy Sumpter), Hobie (Hubbel Palmer), and Maynard (Rob Pinkston) stumble upon the falsified "evidence," they naïvely assume it to be the genuine article. Now, self-proclaimed Sasquatch expert Dr. Artemis Snodgrass (Carl Weathers) is on his way to town to verify the widely reported discovery. With little time to loose before their ruse is revealed, the lame-brained Internet scammer and his pal rush to cash in as quickly as possible in order to save Zerk's sweet ride from the dreaded repo man. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Sasquatch Gang Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 88&nbsp;mins
