Baby: Secret of the Lost Legend is a 1985 American adventure fantasy film directed by Bill L. Norton and starring William Katt, Sean Young, Patrick McGoohan, and Julian Fellowes. The story is based on actual rumors about dinosaur-like creatures (called Mokele-mbembe) still existing in Africa.
An American couple (William Katt and Sean Young) finds a family of surviving apatosaurs (also called brontosaurs) in Central Africa and their struggle to protect them from a greedy scientist (Patrick McGoohan) and the military.
The dinosaur-effects are all animatronic, since this was before the widespread use of CGI in motion pictures.
Baby: Secret of the Lost Legend received generally negative reviews; the film currently holds a 10% 'rotten' rating on review aggregate website Rotten Tomatoes.
The score to Baby: Secret of the Lost Legend, a hybrid of orchestral and synthetic elements, was composed and conducted by veteran composer Jerry Goldsmith. Goldsmith recalled the experience with such fondness that he insisted it be included in an industry tribute album featuring highlights from his scores in 1993. A limited extended soundtrack was released 8 April 2008 through Intrada Records and features sixteen tracks of score at a running time just over fifty-three minutes.
Eight years before the dinosaur mania created by Jurassic Park, Bill L. Norton released this more dinosaur-friendly story about a 10-foot baby dinosaur in dire straits in Africa because Dr. Eric Kiviat (Patrick McGoohan), an evil paleontologist, is after it with a vengeance. He is the nemesis of Dr. Susan Matthews-Loomis (Sean Young) -- determined to save the baby from its hunters -- and her husband George Loomis (William Katt), a sportswriter who shares her protective instincts. Kiviat has recruited a revolutionary army to help him capture the baby's mother -- which they manage to do without killing her. The army has already shot down the father dinosaur, and so their own instincts are far from protective. As the husband and wife and baby dinosaur are united at last in their attempts to survive, the next step is to recapture Mom dinosaur and get away from the army and Kiviat, not an easy feat. ~ Eleanor Mannikka, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 93&nbsp;mins
