Little Voice is a 1998 British drama film with music written and directed by Mark Herman. The screenplay is based on the play The Rise and Fall of Little Voice by Jim Cartwright.
It stars Jane Horrocks, Brenda Blethyn, Ewan McGregor, Jim Broadbent and Michael Caine.
Young autistic Laura Hoff, who lives in a decrepit working-class home in Scarborough, seems to suffer from agoraphobia and social anxiety. Her mother Mari nicknamed her Little Voice because of her shyness. Entranced by her late father’s array of vintage songs by Édith Piaf, Judy Garland, and Shirley Bassey, among others, she flees from her dreary existence by impersonating these singers. Mari, a profligate woman who engages in numerous affairs, discards her lovers as soon her interest falters. Her search for a long-term partner has so far been futile.
Billy, a meek phone installer who comes to repair the family phone, soon shows interest in LV by sending her pamphlets. Her solitary existence shows signs of improvement when Ray Say, a manager of third-rate acts, becomes romantically involved with her mother. He overhears LV singing, recognises her prowess and determines to make her the star she declines to be, whereas Mari, who finds LV’s singing annoying and therefore disdains her, doubts her talent. Ray nonetheless asks his manager to showcase LV at his rather louche nightclub, where the girl quells her fear by imagining her father in the audience, and performs a couple of numbers that enrapture the crowd and argue her talent. For example, her voice is suffused with eroticism as she mimics Marilyn Monroe. Ray Say, who relishes the prospect of LV being a successful performer, tries to goad his newfound protégée into a singing career, but to no avail.
Problems ensue when Little Voice retreats into privacy and boycotts a much-heralded appearance attended by an esteemed press agent. Ray Say’s hopes are extinguished when his attempts to console LV remain fruitless. Mari, who still scorns LV despite recognising her talent, prods her daughter into further performances without noticing the effect this has on LV. When a fire destroys LV’s records, Mari wrongly accuses her daughter of setting their house ablaze. For the first time LV manifests anger by defending herself and blaming Mari’s hedonistic philandering for her husband’s early death.
Mari is abandoned by everyone, including LV, who leaves her for good, and Ray Say, who is facing angry debt-collectors. Billy finally saves LV both literally and figuratively.
The film was filmed in Scarborough, North Yorkshire.
The following songs are performed by Horrocks:
Rotten Tomatoes gives the film an 85% rating based on 34 reviews.
Janet Maslin wrote in her New York Times review, “Horrocks’s phenomenal mimicry of musical grande dames from Marlene Dietrich to Marilyn Monroe, lavishing special loving care on Judy Garland, makes a splendid centerpiece for the otherwise more ordinary film built around it.”
Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times felt the story was “amusing but uneven” and that the film “seems to have all the pieces in place for another one of those whimsical, comic British slices of life. But the movie doesn’t quite deliver the way we think it will. One problem is that the Michael Caine character, sympathetic and funny in the opening and middle scenes, turns mean at the end for no good reason. Another is that the romance, and a manufactured crisis, distract from the true climax of the movie. That would be Jane Horrocks’ vocal performance . . . she is amazing. Absolutely fabulous.”
In Variety, Derek Elley called the film “a small picture with a big heart”, adding, “The film has almost everything going for it, with the exceptions of a somewhat lopsided structure in which the climax comes two-thirds of the way through and a romantic subplot that plays like an afterthought. Nevertheless, smooth direction by Mark Herman and juicy performances by a host of Brit character actors . . . ensure an entertaining ride . . . Horrocks, whose combo of gamin physique and big vocal talent make the title role seem unthinkable for any other actress, is a revelation, handling moments of solo emotion and onstage strutting with equal, moving panache.”
Based on Jim Cartright's play The Rise and Fall of Little Voice, this screen adaptation directed by Mark Herman is an underdog film about an underdog girl named Little Voice (or LV for short). LV (Jane Horrocks from Mike Leigh's Life Is Sweet who does all her own singing) is a shy, mousy woman living with her mom Mari (Secrets and Lies' Brenda Blethyn). Little Voice doesn't leave her house. Instead she sings along to her record collection of Shirley Bassey, Judy Garland, and Marilyn Monroe. Her mother Mari, however, is an outspoken woman who is convinced her sex appeal (which is little) will land her a man, especially when she's drunk. One night while bar-hopping, Mari meets the suave yet sleazy talent agent Ray Say (Michael Caine), whom she takes home for a nightcap. There Ray hears the beautiful Little Voice singing a perfect rendition of Judy Garland's "Somewhere Over the Rainbow" from The Wizard of Oz. He's stunned by its beauty and thinks he can make her a star. From there the story heads in complicated, romantic, and sweet-hearted directions that should not be given away. Also starring in this small independent film is Ewan McGregor. ~ Arthur Borman, RoviSee All Little Voice Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 96&nbsp;mins
