Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest is a 2006 American adventure fantasy comedy film and the second film of the Pirates of the Caribbean series, following Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003). It was directed by Gore Verbinski, written by Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio, and produced by Jerry Bruckheimer. In the film, the marriage of Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) and Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley) is interrupted by Lord Cutler Beckket (Tom Hollander), who wants Turner to acquire Sparrow's compass, and Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) discovers his debt to Davy Jones (Bill Nighy) is due.
Two sequels to Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl were conceived in 2004, with Elliott and Rossio developing a story arc that would span both films. Filming took place from February to September 2005 in Palos Verdes, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Dominica, and The Bahamas, as well as on sets constructed at Walt Disney Studios. It was shot back-to-back with the third film of the series, At World's End.
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest was released in the United States on July 7, 2006. The film received mixed to positive reviews, with praise for its special effects and criticism for its plot and running time. Despite this, it set several records in its first three days, with an opening weekend of $136&#160;million in the United States, and it was, at the time, the fastest film ever to gross over $1&#160;billion in the worldwide box office. As of January 2013, it ranks as the 9th highest-grossing film of all time worldwide and held the record as the highest-grossing film by Walt Disney Pictures for nearly six years until it was surpassed by The Avengers (though it still ranks as the highest grossing film released under the Walt Disney Pictures banner). The film received four Academy Award nominations for Best Art Direction, Sound Editing, Sound Mixing, and won the Academy Award for Visual Effects.
A year after the first movie, on their wedding day Will Turner and Elizabeth Swann are confronted by Lord Cutler Beckett, head of the East India Trading Company, with arrest warrants for their helping pirate Captain Jack Sparrow escape execution. Former Commodore Norrington is also wanted for delaying the pursuit of Sparrow, but Norrington has resigned from the British Royal Navy months prior and disappeared. Elizabeth is thrown in prison. Beckett sends Will to recover Jack's compass in exchange for Letters of Marque that will make Sparrow a British privateer, and he promises Will and Elizabeth pardons.
Will's father Bootstrap Bill Turner tells Jack he must keep his own promise to join the crew of Davy Jones, who raised the sunken Black Pearl for him years ago. When Jack refuses, Bootstrap tells him Jones's "pet" will drag him to Davy Jones' Locker. Will finds the Black Pearl at Pelegosto, where a cannibal tribe worships Jack as a god, planning to kill him to release him from his "human state". After a jungle chase, Jack, Will, Joshamee Gibbs and remnants of the Pearl's crew escape to the ship. Meanwhile Elizabeth's father, Governor Swann, frees her, though he is himself arrested by Beckett. Elizabeth leaves after making a deal with Beckett, taking the Letters of Marque with her and stows away on a ship to find Will and Jack.
On the other side of the island Pelegosto, Jack visits voodoo priestess Tia Dalma, who tells them Davy Jones cut his own heart out and put it in the "Dead Man's Chest", keeping the key to it with him always. Dalma tells Jack where to find Jones's ship, the Flying Dutchman, and gives him a jar of dirt as defense: A curse prevents Jones from stepping on land for 10 years. When Will is captured on board the Dutchman, Jones orders Jack to bring him 99 souls in three days or be killed and made to serve aboard the Dutchman. There, Will reunites with his father, who helps Will steal the key to the Dead Man's Chest from Jones before escaping from the ship. Jones pursues Will, who is rescued by a merchant ship, and Will stows away on the Dutchman afterwards when the Kraken destroys the merchant vessel. Realizing Jack was behind Will's actions, Jones heads to Isla Cruces where the chest is buried, fearing it not to be safe.
Meanwhile Governor Swann is arrested by Beckett for helping Elizabeth escape prison and trying to send a letter to the King with a negative review on Beckett's authority. Governor Swann is informed that the Company's ships are pursuing the Pearl and if caught he will be pardoned and Elizabeth will be protected under the condition that Swann gives good reports about Beckett's presence.
Elizabeth becomes a stowaway on a merchant ship, dressing like a man and leaving her dress on the ship. This accidentally caused the crew to believe there is a female ghost on the ship. The captain is skeptical of this and believes, accurately, that there is a stowaway female on the ship. Using the ghost concept to her advantage, Elizabeth realizes if anyone is looking for her or if she were to find anyone, she would have to go to Tortuga. Using fishing twine to make the dress she was previous wearing fly, the crew is spooked into obeying whatever the female "ghost" wants. Elizabeth uses a trick to burn the word "Tortuga" into the ship deck, making the captain and crew head there.
In Tortuga with Jack to find a crew, Gibbs encounters Norrington, who tells Gibbs he lost his job while pursuing Jack through a hurricane. Despite the awkwardness of the situation, Gibbs hires him after accidentally causing a bar brawl. Elizabeth, also in Tortuga, still dressed like a man, confronts Jack and he accepts her along for her assistance in locating the chest. At Isla Cruces, Jack has Elizabeth use his compass, which points to whatever its holder wants most, to find the chest. A debate over possession of the heart leads to a duel among Will, Jack and Norrington. Meanwhile, Elizabeth and mischievous pirates Pintel and Ragetti fight with Dutchman crewmen, who are also looking for the heart, which Jack hides in the jar of dirt. Norrington, however, then hides the heart and the letters of marque in his coat, giving Jones' men the empty chest and fleeing on his own.
Confronting the Pearl, Jones calls the Kraken, which kills most of the Pearl's crew. Meanwhile Jack is seen escaping from the Pearl by Elizabeth. Jack then has a change of heart towards the Pearl and returns onboard. Jack wounds the Kraken by shooting a net of explosives hanging above the deck. After the Kraken leaves, it is decided that they should abandon the Pearl. Elizabeth, aware of Jack's earlier escape, chains him to the mast by kissing him; Will sees this and misunderstands. Jack frees himself from the shackles but is too late to escape, giving a courageous last stand as The Kraken eats him and takes the ship down to Davy Jones's Locker.
In Port Royal, Norrington gives the letters of marque and Jones' heart to Beckett, hoping they will earn him a clean record and a new commission. Will, Elizabeth, Gibbs and the other crewmen return to Dalma's home and plan to rescue Jack. Dalma asks if they are willing to sail to the world's end, saying they will need a captain who knows those waters; all are astonished to see a resurrected Captain Barbossa. In the post credits scene, the prison dog becomes the chief of the Pelegostos.
Following the success of Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003), the cast and crew signed on for two more sequels to be shot back-to-back, a practical decision on Disney's part to allow more time with the same cast and crew. Writer Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio decided not to make the sequels new adventures featuring the same characters, as with the Indiana Jones and James Bond series, but to retroactively turn The Curse of the Black Pearl into the first of a trilogy. They wanted to explore the reality of what would happen after Will Turner and Elizabeth Swann's embrace at the end of the first film, and initially considered the Fountain of Youth as the plot device. They settled on introducing Davy Jones, the Flying Dutchman and the Kraken. They also introduced the historical East India Trading Company, who for them represented a counterpoint to the themes of personal freedom represented by pirates.
Planning on the film began in June 2004, and production was much larger than The Curse of the Black Pearl, which was only shot on location in St. Vincent. This time, the sequels would require fully working ships, with a working Black Pearl built over the body of an oil tanker in Bayou La Batre, Alabama. By November, the script was still unfinished as the writers did not want director Gore Verbinski and producer Jerry Bruckheimer to compromise what they had written, so Verbinski worked with James Byrkit to storyboard major sequences without need of a script, while Elliott and Rossio wrote a "preparatory" script for the crew to use before they finished the script they were happy with. By January 2005, with rising costs and no script, Disney threatened to cancel the film, but changed their minds. The writers would accompany the crew on location, feeling that the lateness of their rewrites would improve the spontaneity of the cast's performances.
Filming for Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest began on February 28, 2005, in Palos Verdes, beginning with Elizabeth's ruined wedding day. The crew spent the first shooting days at Walt Disney Studios in Los Angeles, including the interiors of the Black Pearl and the Edinburgh Trader which Elizabeth stows away on, before moving to St. Vincent to shoot the scenes in Port Royal and Tortuga. Sets from the previous film were reused, having survived three hurricanes, although the main pier had to be rebuilt as it had collapsed in November. The crew had four tall ships at their disposal to populate the backgrounds, which were painted differently on each side for economy. One of the ships used was the replica of the HMS Bounty used in the 1962 film adaptation of Mutiny on the Bounty.
On April 18, 2005, the crew began shooting at Dominica, a location Verbinski had selected as he felt it fitted the sense of remoteness he was looking for. That was exactly the problem during production: the Dominican government were completely unprepared for the scale of a Hollywood production, with the 500-strong crew occupying around 90% of the roads on the island and having trouble moving around on the underdeveloped roads. The weather also alternated between torrential rainstorms and hot temperatures, the latter of which was made worse for the cast who had to wear period clothing. At Dominica, the sequences involving the Pelegosto and the forest segment of the battle on Isla Cruces were shot. Verbinski preferred to use practical props for the giant wheel and bone cage sequences, feeling long close-up shots would help further suspend the audience's disbelief. Dominica was also used for Tia Dalma's shack. Filming on the island concluded on May 26, 2005.
The crew moved to a small island called White Cay in the Bahamas for the beginning and end of the Isla Cruces battle, before production took a break until August, where in Los Angeles the interiors of the Flying Dutchman were shot. On September 18, 2005, the crew moved to Grand Bahama Island to shoot ship exteriors, including the working Black Pearl and Flying Dutchman. Filming there was a tumultuous period, starting with the fact that the tank had not actually been finished. The hurricane season caused many pauses in shooting, and Hurricane Wilma damaged many of the accessways and pumps, though no one was hurt nor were any of the ships destroyed. Filming completed on September 10, 2005.
The Flying Dutchman's crew members were originally conceived by writers Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio as ghosts, but Gore Verbinski disliked this and designed them as physical creatures. Their hierarchy is reflected by how mutated they were: newcomers had low level infections which resemble rosacea, while the most mutated had full-blown undersea creature attributes. Verbinski wanted to keep them realistic, rejecting a character with a turtle shell, and the animators watched various David Attenborough documentaries to study the movement of sea anemones and mussels. All of the crew are computer-generated, with the exception of Stellan Skarsgård, who played "Bootstrap" Bill Turner. Initially his prosthetics would be augmented with CGI but that was abandoned. Skarsgård spent four hours in the make-up chair and was dubbed "Bouillabaisse" on set.
Captain Davy Jones had originally been designed with chin growths, before the designers made the move to full-blown tentacles; the skin of the character is based on a blurred version of the texture of a coffee-stained Styrofoam cup. To portray Jones on set, Bill Nighy wore a motion capture tracksuit that meant the animators at Industrial Light & Magic did not have to reshoot the scene in the studio without him or on the motion capture stage. Nighy wore make-up around his eyes and mouth to splice into the computer-generated shots, but the images of his eyes and mouth were not used. Nighy only wore a prosthetic once, with blue-colored tentacles for when Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) steals the key to the Dead Man's Chest from under his "beard" as he sleeps. To create the CG version of the character, the model was closely based on a full-body scan of Nighy, with Jones reflecting his high cheekbones. Animators studied every frame of Nighy's performance: the actor himself had blessed them by making his performance more quirky than expected, providing endless fun for them. His performance also meant new controls had to be stored. Finally, Jones' tentacles are mostly a simulation, though at times they were hand-animated when they act as limbs for the character.
The Kraken was difficult to animate as it had no real-life reference, until animation director Hal Hickel instructed the crew to watch King Kong vs. Godzilla which had a real octopus crawling over miniatures. On the set, two pipes filled with 30,000 pounds of cement were used to crash and split the Edinburgh Trader: Completing the illusion are miniature masts and falling stuntmen shot on a bluescreen stage. The scene where the Kraken spits at Jack Sparrow does not use computer-generated spit: it was real gunge thrown at Johnny Depp.
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest premiered at Disneyland in California on June 24, 2006. It was the first Disney film to use the new computer-generated Walt Disney Pictures production logo, which took a year for the studio to design. Weta Digital was responsible for the logo's final animated rendering and Mark Mancina was hired to score a new composition of "When You Wish Upon A Star".
The film became available on DVD on December 5, 2006 for Region 1 and sold 9,498,304 units in its first week of sales (equivalent to $174,039,324). In total it sold 16,694,937 units, earning $320,871,909. It was the best-selling DVD of 2006 in terms of units sold and second in terms of sales revenue behind The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe.
The versions for Regions 2 and 4 had already been released on November 15, 2006 and November 20, 2006, respectively. The DVD, incompatible with some Region 1 hardware DVD Players due to the use of ARccOS Protection, came in single and two-disc versions. Both contained a commentary track with the screenwriters and a gag reel, with the double-disc featuring a video of the film premiere and a number of documentaries, including a full-length documentary entitled "According to the Plan" and eight featurettes. The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on May 22, 2007.
After months of anticipation and industry hype, reviews for Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest were mixed: the film scored a 54% rating on Rotten Tomatoes with an average rating of 5.910. Among the positive critics were Michael Booth of the Denver Post, who awarded the film three-and-a-half stars out of four, praising it as "two hours and 20 minutes of escapism that once again makes the movies safe for guilt-free fun." Drew McWeeny was highly positive, comparing the film to The Empire Strikes Back, and also acclaimed its darkness in its depiction of the crew of the Flying Dutchman and its cliffhanger. The completely computer-generated Davy Jones turned out to be so realistic that some reviewers mistakenly identified Nighy as wearing prosthetic makeup. The New York Times gave a positive review praising Director Gore Verbinski saying "You put down your money — still less than $10 in most cities — and in return you get two and a half hours of spirited swashbuckling and Gore Verbinski, has an appropriate sense of mischief, as a well as a gift, nearly equaling those of Peter Jackson and Steven Spielberg, for integrating CGI seamlessly into his cinematic compositions." Empire magazine gave the film 3 stars saying "Depp is once again an unmitigated joy as Captain Sparrow, delivering another eye-darting, word-slurring turn with some wonderful slapstick flourishes. Indeed, Rossio and Elliot smartly exploit these in some wonderful action set-pieces." "We don’t get the predictable ‘all friends together on the same quest’ structure, and there’s a surfeit of surprises, crosses and double-crosses and cheeky character beats which stay true to the original’s anti-heroic sense of fun. After all, Jack Sparrow is a pirate, a bad guy in a hero’s hat, a man driven by self-gain over concern for the greater good, who will run away from a fight and cheat his ‘friends’ without a second’s thought." Lord McLovin of MovieWeb said "The second tale of Captain Jack Sparrow is another epic adventure!"
On the other hand, critic Paul Arendt of the BBC negatively compared it to The Matrix Reloaded, as a complex film that merely led onto the next film. Richard George felt a "better construct of Dead Man's Chest and At World's End would have been to take 90 minutes of Chest, mix it with all of End and then cut that film in two." Alex Billington felt the third film "almost makes the second film in the series obsolete or dulls it down enough that we can accept it in our trilogy DVD collections without ever watching it."
Dead Man's Chest earned $423,315,812 in the North America and $642,863,913 in other territories, for a worldwide total of $1,066,179,725. Worldwide, it ranks as the eighth highest-grossing film, the second highest-grossing Disney film, the highest-grossing 2006 film, the highest grossing film in the Pirates of the Caribbean series and the highest-grossing second film in a franchise. It reached the $1-billion-mark worldwide in record time (63 days), a record that has since been surpassed by many films, of which the first was Avatar (in January 2010).
In North America, the film broke many records including the largest opening- and single-day gross ($55.8&#160;million), the biggest opening weekend gross ($135.6&#160;million), the least time to reach $100, $200 and $300&#160;million and the highest ten-day gross. However, most of them were broken by Spider-Man 3 in May 2007 and The Dark Knight in July 2008. The film was in first place at the box office for three consecutive weekends. It closed in theaters on December 7, 2006, with a $423.3 million haul. Thus, in North America, it is the highest-grossing film of 2006, the highest grossing film in the series, the second highest-grossing Disney film of all time and the ninth highest-grossing film of all time, although, adjusted for inflation, the film ranks forty-sixth on the all-time chart.
Outside North America, it is the eighteenth highest-grossing film, the third highest-grossing Pirates film, the sixth highest-grossing Disney film and the highest-grossing film of 2006. It set opening-weekend records in Russia and the CIS, Ukraine, Finland, Malaysia, Singapore, Greece and Italy. It was on top of the box office outside North America for 9 consecutive weekends and 10 in total. It was the highest-grossing film of 2006 in Australia, Bulgaria, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden and Thailand.
At the 79th Academy Awards, visual effects supervisors John Knoll, Hal Hickel, Charles Gibson and Allen Hall won an Oscar for Best Visual Effects, which was also the first time since 1994's Forrest Gump that Industrial Light and Magic had received that particular Academy Award. The film was also nominated for Best Art Direction, Sound Editing and Sound Mixing.
The film also won a BAFTA and Satellite award for Best Visual Effects, and six awards from the Visual Effects Society.
Other awards won by the film include Choice Movie: Action Adventure, Choice DramaAction Adventure Movie, Actor for Johnny Depp at the 2006 Teen Choice Awards; Favorite Movie, Movie Drama, Male Actor for Depp and On-Screen Couple for Depp and Keira Knightley at the 33rd People's Choice Awards; Best Movie and Performance for Depp at the 2007 MTV Movie Awards and Best Special Effects at the Saturn Awards, and Favorite Movie at the 2007 Kids' Choice Awards.

Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) returns to the screen for another round of supernatural adventures on the high seas in this spirited sequel to the 2003 Disney hit, which re-teams original director Gore Verbinski with original screenwriters Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio. As Will (Orlando Bloom) and Elizabeth (Keira Knightley) prepare to exchange vows at the altar, their wedding plans hit rough waters with the arrival of sea-bound scallywag Jack Sparrow. It seems that Sparrow owes a substantial blood debt to half-octopus sea captain Davy Jones (Bill Nighy), and that the only way for the flamboyant sea rover to elude the wrath of his otherworldly pursuer is to seek the aid of mysterious and powerful voodoo priestess Tia Dalma (Naomie Harris), whose ability to resurrect the dead and gaze into the future may provide just the advantage needed to avoid a waterlogged fate in the locker of his legendary nemesis. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 150&nbsp;mins
