Dr. Seuss's The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T. (1953) is a musical fantasy film, the only feature film ever written by Theodor Seuss Geisel (Dr. Seuss), who was responsible for the story, screenplay and lyrics. It was directed by Roy Rowland, with many uncredited takes actually directed by producer Stanley Kramer. 1953 Academy Award nomination for Best Scoring of a Musical Picture.
Made in 1953, a critical year, with Eastmancolor beginning to edge out "Three-Strip" Technicolor for color production. This film was formatted for the more traditional 1.37:1 "Academy" aspect ratio, rather than the emerging, beginning with Shane, 1.66:11.85:1 "flat wide screen" format, even for "Three-Strip" productions. Nevertheless, The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T. was a last-gasp use of the 1.37:1 Three-Strip Technicolor format, seldom used again, except for archival restorations. The film was re-released in 1958 under the title Crazy Music.
Young Bart Collins (Tommy Rettig) lives with his widowed mother Heloise (Mary Healy). The major blight on Bart's existence is the hated piano lessons he is forced to endure under the tutelage of the autocratic Dr. Terwilliker (Hans Conried). Bart feels that his mother has fallen under Terwilliker's ominous influence, and gripes to visiting plumber August Zabladowski (Peter Lind Hayes), without much result. While grimly hammering away at his lessons, Bart dozes off and enters a fantastical musical dream, in much the same fashion as Judy Garland in The Wizard of Oz.
In the dream, Bart is trapped at the surreal Terwilliker Institute, where the piano teacher is now a madman dictator who has imprisoned non-piano-playing musicians. He also built a piano so large that it requires Bart and 499 other boys (hence, the 5,000 fingers) in order to play it. Bart's mother has been turned into Terwilliker's hypnotized assistant and bride-to-be, and Bart must dodge the Institute's guards as he scrambles to save both his mother and himself. He tries to recruit Mr. Zabladowski, who has been hired to install all of the Institute's lavatories ahead of a vital inspection, but only after much skepticism and foot-dragging is the plumber finally convinced to help. The two of them empty their pockets and construct a noise-sucking contraption which ruins the mega-piano's opening concert. The enslaved boys cheerfully run riot, and the "VERY atomic" noise-sucker explodes in spectacular fashion, bringing Bart out of his dream.
The movie ends on a hopeful note for Bart, when the real-life Mr. Zabladowski finally notices Heloise, and offers to drive her into town in his jeep. Bart escapes from the piano, and triumphantly runs off to play.
The voice of Tommy Rettig was dubbed by Tony Butala, the founder of The Lettermen.
Healy and Hayes were married in real life when they made the movie.
Although he had written the original treatment and all the song lyrics, Geisel regarded the finished film as a "debaculous fiasco" and omitted any mention of it in his official biography with Random House.
At the Hollywood premiere, patrons walked out on the film after 15 minutes, and box-office receipts were equally disappointing. Nevertheless, the film has gained a cult following over the years, and has been favorably compared to the live-action adaptations of Seuss's works made since his death.
The film is almost entirely musical, with either background music or actual musical numbers. Composed by Frederick Hollander (born Friedrich Hollaender) with lyrics by Dr. Seuss, the score was nominated for an Academy Award in 1953. Along with standard orchestral instruments, the score also uses a theremin. A soundtrack CD was released by él records in association with Cherry Red Records, Ltd. (ACMEM126CD). In addition to the film's score the CD includes ten tracks that were not included in the film. They are:
The "Elevator Song", intoned by an elevator operator who resembled a hooded executioner, originally contained four verses in the original release of the film. The third verse, THIRD FLOOR DUNGEON, was edited out for the re-release and television runs of the film, and also the current restoration for DVD release of the film.
As filmed and originally released the lyrics were as follows:
FIRST FLOOR DUNGEON
SECOND FLOOR DUNGEON
THIRD FLOOR DUNGEON
BASEMENT DUNGEON
Ted Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss, wrote and helped design this eccentric fantasy about a young boy named Bart (Tommy Rettig) who, like most young boys, doesn't enjoy his piano lessons with the mean-spirited Dr. Terwilliker (Hans Conried). He figures his time would be better spent playing baseball with his friends or helping his grown-up buddy Arthur Zabladowski (Peter Lind Hayes), a plumber. One night, while fast asleep, Bart has a long and remarkable dream in which he's trapped in the kingdom of the fearsome Dr. T, who has enslaved hundreds of little boys, forcing them to practice on the world's largest piano until they drop. With the help of a friendly plumber, Bart plans a revolt that will topple Dr. T's evil empire once and for all. The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T also features several songs for which Geisel contributed lyrics. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 92&nbsp;mins
