The Brothers McMullen is a 1995 American comedy-drama film directed, written, produced by, and starring Edward Burns. It deals with the lives of the three Irish Catholic McMullen brothers from Long Island, New York, over three months, as they grapple with basic ideas and values — love, sex, marriage, religion and family — in the 1990s.
The film begins with Finbar "Barry" McMullen (Edward Burns) standing at the grave of his recently deceased father, along with his mother, who tells him that she's returning to her native Ireland to be with Finbar O'Shaughnessy (after whom Barry is named), her sweetheart of long ago. She tells Barry that while she gave Barry's father 35 of the best years of her life, she's going to start living life her way with the man she really loves.
Jack (Jack Mulcahy) has purchased their parents' home and lives in it with his wife Molly. Jack is torn between his love for Molly and his lust for Ann, a former romantic interest of Barry's.
Barry and the youngest brother, Pat (Mike McGlone) ask to temporarily move in with Jack, to which he reluctantly agrees. Pat plans to break his engagement to Susan, but becomes depressed when she breaks up with him. After much pleading, Susan decides to take Pat back. Pat then decides to end the relationship for good for Leslie, an auto mechanic. They decide to head out to California together in a classic car that Leslie has been working on.
Barry shows no interest in a long-term relationship, until he meets Audrey (Maxine Bahns), a woman whom he accuses of "stealing" an apartment that he was trying to rent for himself. Though things do not go well between them at first, they warm up to one another and start a relationship.
Molly learns of Jack's affair after finding a wrapped condom in his pants as she is cleaning up after him one day. She confronts Jack, but he refuses to discuss it.
Jack finally breaks it off for good with Ann. He then returns home determined to rebuild his wounded marriage, but not before paying a visit to his father's grave, promising (in a voice-over) that he will be a better husband to his wife than his father was, pouring a bottle of Irish whiskey over the grave.
Barry decides to move in with Audrey and take their relationship to the next level. The movie ends with all three brothers gathering at the family homestead with a newfound belief in love and a desire to not let the ghosts of the past stand in their way.
Edward Burns wrote the screenplay in the spring of 1993 while working as a production assistant for Entertainment Tonight, where he worked for cameraman Dick Fisher, who later produced and edited the film. Burns' own Irish Catholic background fed into the screenplay, and film was mostly shot in Burns' real-life family home, a large house in a working-class neighborhood on Long Island. Shooting took place on weekends over an eight-month period in New York State, USA.
The film, which was shot on 16mm film, cost only $28,000, essentially the cost of raw stock and processing (this does not, however, include post production costs incurred after the major distribution deal was made, nor the cost of the rights for the Sarah McLachlan song "I Will Remember You" which plays over the end credits).
The film won the Grand Jury Prize at the 1995 Sundance Film Festival. It was picked up for distribution by 20th Century Fox and grossed over $10&#160;million at the US box office, making it one of the most profitable independent films of that era. According to Tom Rothman, it was also the first film ever released by Fox Searchlight Pictures, which Tom Rothman started for 20th Century Fox, in order to release Independent, Dramedy, Foreign and Arthouse films, despite being in Hollywood.
Shot on weekends over an eight-month period with practically no budget, writerdirectorproduceractor Edward Burns' first feature is a family drama centering on the tumultuous love lives of three small-town, Irish-American brothers. Burns stars as Barry, the middle child who finds himself needing a place to stay and moves in with big brother Jack (Jack Mulcahy). Despite being seemingly happily married to Molly (Connie Britton), Jack gives in to temptation and begins having a sexual affair. All the while, devout-Catholic baby brother Patrick (Mike McGlone) faces an ongoing struggle to deal with the religious leanings of the women in his life. The Brothers McMullen premiered at the 1995 Sundance Film Festival, where it was at the center of a fierce bidding war. ~ Matthew Tobey, RoviSee All The Brothers McMullen Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 98&nbsp;mins
