Faraway, So Close! (German: In weiter Ferne, so nah!) is a 1993 film by German director Wim Wenders. The screenplay is by Wenders, Richard Reitinger and Ulrich Zieger. The film is a sequel to Wenders' 1987 film Wings of Desire. Actors Otto Sander and Bruno Ganz reprise their roles as angels visiting earth. The film also stars Nastassja Kinski, Willem Dafoe and Heinz Rühmann (in his last film role). It won the Grand Prix du Jury and was nominated for the Palme d'Or at the 1993 Cannes Film Festival.
Cassiel and Raphaella, two angels, observe the busy life of reunited Berlin. Due to their divine origin, they can hear the thoughts of the people around them, and try to console a dying man. Cassiel has been following his friend Damiel (a former angel), who senses his presence and talks about his experiences as a human. He owns a pizza parlor named Casa dell'angelo (Angel's House) and has married Marion, a trapeze artist whom he met when an angel. She works in a local bar in West Berlin, and the two have a young daughter (Marion).
Cassiel follows Raisa Becker, an 11-year-old girl who lives in the former East Berlin. He observes her life and notices that she and her mother Hanna Becker are being followed by Philip Winter, a detective who works for Anton Baker. The latter is an American mafioso who owns a transport company.
Cassiel follows Hanna Becker (and Winter) to an abandoned building in the outskirts of East Berlin. There he finds that she brings food to Konrad, a man who has acted as a father to her, since his days as her chauffeur during World War II. Traveling back in time, Cassiel is able to see the last days of Berlin late in the war. When the war appeared to have been lost, the father, a doctor, escaped to the United States with his son and adopted the name Baker. The mother Gertrud Becker stayed behind with the young Hanna, both under the care of Konrad.
Winter photographs the WWII-vintage cars which Konrad cares for and brings the photos to Baker. Winter drops the man as an employer, having investigated his activities. He encounters Peter Falk outside the hotel.
As Raphaella and Cassiel sit on top of the Brandenburg Gate, he expresses a desire to experience human life. Visiting Raisa, he finds her alone at her flat and leaning over the balcony railing. As she falls, Cassiel tries to save her and suddenly becomes human, catching the child. He has to adjust to the transformation, learning to modulate the volume of his voice and to negotiate streets and avoid being hit by cars. His only possession is an angel's armor, which became tangible when he leaped into humanity. In the underground (subway), Cassiel is tricked into gambling by Emit Flesti, losing his armor and money won during the game. Raphaella begs Flesti to give Cassiel time to understand what it is to be a human; he agrees but does not promise to stop hunting him.
Arrested and detained, Cassiel struggles to satisfy police demands for identification. He cannot give (or comprehend) his name or address, but refers the police to his friend's pizza shop. Damiel arrives at the station and takes his now human friend home. Cassiel does not understand why everyone is so alone and cannot understand each other (his ability as an angel to hear their thoughts has disappeared.)
Tricked by Flesti into drinking alcohol, he becomes addicted and robs a shop with a gun taken from a teenager. The boy had been planning to kill his stepfather for abuse. Cassiel begins acting to make his way and feigns a car accident with Baker. He manages to get Baker to pay for his passport and official identifications under the name Karl Engel (Charles Angel). Baker hires Cassiel as his personal valet, to pass him cards for beating his mafia associates at poker. Stopping by Casa dell'Angelo to return items borrowed from Damiel, Cassiel encounters Flesti again. He is collecting money from Damiel, after having loaned him money to set up the business.
After he saves Baker's life from an extortion attempt by Patzke, Baker makes Cassiel his partner. Finally learning his evil business, Cassiel decides to stop him. He goes first to Konrad's garage, to rest in one of his cars; Winter sleeps in another. When Winter is about to leave, he is killed by Flesti. Winter dies in Cassiel's arms. Konrad arrives and Cassiel tells his life story, since the former chauffeur recognized him as the angel in his life. The former angel organizes his friends to destroy Baker's business. Meanwhile, Baker has reunited with his sister Hanna.
With the help of Peter Falk, Cassiel gets into Baker's airport storage area. His team takes all the weapons and destroy the pornography copying machines. They send the weapons to a barge owned by other friends. Once having completed the plan, Cassiel feels ready to live as a human, but Flesti reports that Baker's enemy Patzke has hijacked the barge with Baker's and Cassiel's friends inside.
Flesti reveals himself as Time and says that he has to make Cassiel understand he does not belong in the human world; he has a word written on his forehead. At a boat lift, Cassiel gets on the barge to free Raisa, but is killed. Flesti slows time so the rest can take over the barge and save the entire party. Cassiel's friends are saddened by his death, but when Damiel hears a ring in his ear, he understands that Cassiel is near and laughs in joy.
The film features cameo appearances by the singer Lou Reed, the American actor Peter Falk and former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, all of whom play themselves.
The U2 song "Stay (Faraway, So Close!)" was written for the film. The same year as the film's release, the band released a different version as a single from the album Zooropa.
The soundtrack, released on SBK RecordsERG has a running time of 76:33 with the following tracks:
The film won the Grand Prix du Jury and was nominated for the Palme d'Or at the 1993 Cannes Film Festival.
Wim Wenders revisits his masterpiece Der Himmel Uber Berlin in this film which picks up several years after the original left off. Cassiel (Otto Sander) is an angel who watches over the lives of the people of recently reunified Berlin with Raphaella (Nastassja Kinski). Damiel (Bruno Ganz), Cassiel's former partner who opted to return to the land of the living in the first film, now lives happily as a pizza chef with the woman he loved and married, circus performer Marion (Solveig Dommartin). While angels are forbidden to directly intervene in the lives of humans, Cassiel impulsively breaks this rule when a little girl falls from the balcony of an apartment block, and he swoops down to catch her. Suddenly made flesh and blood, Cassiel has earned the enmity of Emit Flesti (Willem Dafoe), a sort of overseer of the angels on the physical plane. Emit makes it his business to make things difficult for Cassiel now that he's living among the humans, and after a period of alcoholism and imprisonment, Cassiel finds himself working for gangster Tony Baker (Horst Buchholz), who distributes weapons and pornography on the black market. However, Cassiel has a change of heart and decides to destroy Tony's stockpile in a bid to make the world a better place. Peter Falk, who played himself in Der Himmel Uber Berlin, makes a return appearance when a gallery shows the sketches that he was making in the first film; rock singer Lou Reed and former Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev also appear as themselves. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All Faraway, So Close! Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 146&nbsp;mins
