The Nutcracker in 3D (released on DVD as The Nutcracker: The Untold Story) is a 2010 British-Hungarian 3D fantasy film adaption of the ballet The Nutcracker, directed by Andrei Konchalovsky. The film met with universally negative reviews from critics upon its release, and became a major failure at the box office. The film does not credit the original The Nutcracker and the Mouse King story, nor its author E. T. A. Hoffmann.
Mary's seemingly dull Christmas is suddenly filled with excitement and adventure following the arrival of her Uncle Albert, who gives her a Nutcracker as a gift. Later that night, Mary dreams that the Nutcracker (called N.C.) comes to life and takes her on a wondrous journey. They discover that the Nazi-like Rat King has usurped the Nutcracker's kingdom.
In the climax of the film, the Nutcracker appears to have been killed, but Mary's tears and declaration of love restore him to life and transforms him into a prince, his true form. The rats are all defeated and overthrown, but now Mary must reluctantly awaken from her dream. Before, she's fully awake by N.C.'s promise that they'll meet again. After she does so, she goes to Uncle Albert's workshop, where she meets his new young neighbor, who is the exact image of the Nutcracker Prince and who asks to be called N.C. The two become close friends, and the last shot of the film shows them ice skating together.
Director Konchalovsky stated that The Nutcracker in 3D had been his "dream project" for over 20 years. Konchalovsky was inspired to adapt the film into 3D for several reasons; he believed that the format would be useful in conveying the fantastical nature of the material, capturing the emotions of CGI characters, and appealing to a family audience. At the same time, he opted to adapt the film with no ballet sequences because, according to him, "ballet cannot work in cinema very well."
Konchalovsky gave the rats who try to take over the fantasy kingdom Nazi-like qualities in his production, one of the many elements in the adaptation which alienated both critics and audiences.
The film was announced at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival and was shot primarily in Budapest, Hungary that summer, before the set was moved to the Stern Film Studio in Pomáz.
The music for the film is derived from Tchaikovsky's original music for The Nutcracker, the composer's ballet version of the E.T.A. Hoffmann story, and lyricist Tim Rice wrote lyrics for it. Many of the songs are based on the ballet's dances. Other songs are based on Tchaikovsky's other compositions, such as his Symphony No. 5.
The Nutcracker in 3D was first screened at the European Film Market on 5 February 2009. The film was released in Hungary on 8 December 2012 and United Kingdom on 28 December 2012.
The Nutcracker in 3D did not do well at the box office. It had brought in a total of $16,178,959 worldwide, making it a box office bomb.
Upon its non-release in North America The Nutcracker in 3D was widely panned by critics. The film managed a 0% "rotten", or 2.810 rating, on review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, based on 28 critics' reviews. The site's consensus was: "Misguided, misconceived, and misbegotten on every level, The Nutcracker in 3D is a stunning exercise in astonishing cinematic wrong-headedness." It achieved a score of 18100 "overwhelming dislike" on fellow aggregate Metacritic. Metacritic would later rank The Nutcracker in 3D the "Worst Limited Release" film of 2010. Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave the film one out of four stars and asked "From what dark night of the soul emerged the wretched idea for The Nutcracker in 3D?" Ebert went on to claim The Nutcracker in 3D as "One of those rare holiday movies that may send children screaming under their seats."
Claudia Puig of USA Today accused the film of being "contrived, convoluted, amateurish and tedious," and panned it for lacking any trace of ballet, unlike several previous versions of The Nutcracker. Entertainment Weekly reviewer Lisa Schwarzbaum gave the film its only positive review from a professional film critic, awarding it a B+ and remarking "Attention, university film clubs: Here's your cult-ready midnight-movie programming."
A dejected nine-year-old girl finds her dreary Christmas in Vienna magically transformed by an enchanted gift in director Andrei Konchalovsky's adaptation of the timeless holiday classic. Just as it begins to look as if Christmas is going to be a total bust, young Mary (Elle Fanning) receives a gorgeously crafted nutcracker from her adoring uncle Albert (Nathan Lane). Later, as night falls on Christmas, the Nutcracker (Charlie Rowe) springs to life, and whisks Mary away on a breathtaking tour of the place where all Christmas gifts come alive. But something is amiss in this captivating world of wonder; the malevolent Rat King (John Turturro) and his wicked mother (Frances de la Tour) are plotting to claim the entire kingdom for themselves, and when they kidnap the Nutcracker, Mary teams up with the other toys to get him back. Saving the kingdom won't be easy, though, because before Mary and her friends can rescue the Nutcracker and restore order, they'll have to discover the Rat King's one true weakness, and summon the courage to strike back when he least expects it. The film features eight new songs by Oscar winner Sir Tim Rice (Aladdin, The Lion King). ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Nutcracker in 3D Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 108&nbsp;mins
