Toy Story 2 is a 1999 American computer-animated comedy film produced by Pixar Animation Studios and directed by John Lasseter. Co-directed by Lee Unkrich and Ash Brannon, the film is the sequel to Toy Story. In the film, Woody is stolen by a toy collector, prompting Buzz Lightyear and his friends vowing to rescue him. However, Woody finds the idea of immortality in a museum tempting. The film returns many of the original characters and voices from Toy Story and introduces several new characters, including Jessie, Barbie, and Mrs. Potato Head. It is the last Toy Story film in which Jim Varney provides Slinky Dog's voice before he died in 2000.
Disney initially envisioned the film as a direct-to-video sequel and Toy Story 2 began production in a building separated from Pixar and was much smaller scale, with most of the main Pixar staff working on A Bug's Life (1998). When story reels proved promising, Disney upgraded the film to theatrical release, but Pixar was unhappy with the film's quality. Lasseter and the story team re-developed the entire plot in one weekend. Although most Pixar features take years to develop, the established release date could not be moved and the production schedule for Toy Story 2 was compressed into nine months.
Despite production struggles, Toy Story 2 opened in November 1999 to wildly successful box office numbers, eventually grossing over $485 million, and highly positive critical reviews. Toy Story 2 has been considered by critics and audiences alike to be one of few sequels that outshine the original, and it continues to be featured frequently on lists of the greatest animated films ever. The film has seen multiple home media releases and a 3-D re-release in 2009. The film's success led to the production of Toy Story 3 in 2010, which was also highly successful.
About one year after the events in Toy Story, Woody prepares to go to cowboy camp with Andy, but his arm is accidentally ripped. Andy decides to leave him behind, and his mother puts him on the shelf. After Woody has a nightmare about Andy throwing him in a trashcan full of arms, he discovers that a penguin toy named Wheezy has been on the shelf for months because of a broken squeaker. When Woody saves Wheezy from a yard sale, he is stolen by a toy collector who Buzz Lightyear and the other toys recognize from a commercial as Al McWhiggin, the greedy, avaricious owner of a shop named Al's Toy Barn. Buzz, Hamm, Mr. Potato Head, Slinky Dog, and Rex set out to rescue Woody.
In Al's apartment, Woody discovers that he is a valuable collectible based on an old 1950's TV show called Woody's Roundup, and is set to be sold to a toy museum in Tokyo, Japan. The other toys from the show - Jessie the yodeling cowgirl, Woody's horse Bullseye, and Stinky Pete the Prospector, are excited about the trip but Woody intends to go home because he is Andy's toy. Jessie, who is afraid of the dark, is upset with him as the museum will only want the whole gang; without him, they will go back into storage. That night, when Woody's whole arm comes off, his attempt to retrieve it and escape is foiled when the TV comes on. Woody, seeing the remote in front of Jessie, accuses her of sabotaging his escape. The following morning, Woody's arm is reconnected and he decides to stay when Jessie reveals that she was once the beloved toy of a child named Emily who eventually outgrew and gave her away and Prospector warns him that the same fate awaits him when Andy grows up.
Buzz and the other toys reach Al's Toy Barn. While searching the store for Woody, Buzz is captured and imprisoned in a box by a newer Buzz Lightyear action figure which thinks itself a real space ranger, as Buzz did in the original film. The new Buzz joins the other toys, who do not notice the switch, as they make their way to Al's apartment. Buzz escapes and pursues them, thinking they have also been captured by Al. When he gets out of Al's Toy Barn, he unknowingly and accidentally releases an action figure of his archenemy Emperor Zurg who follows him. Buzz rejoins the others as they find Woody, who initially refuses to return because he does not want to abandon the rest of the Roundup Gang. After Buzz reminds Woody of "a toy's true purpose", and he is moved by seeing himself sing "You've Got a Friend in Me" on the television, he changes his mind again and asks the Roundup toys to come with him. However, Stinky Pete prevents their escape and reveals that he wants to go to Tokyo because he spent his life on a dime store shelf and was never sold. To ensure this, he made sure Woody would not go home, and was also responsible for sabotaging his escape the previous night. Al arrives and takes Woody and the Roundup toys with him, forcing both Buzz Lightyears and Andy's toys to follow him. They follow Al to an elevator where they encounter Zurg who fights the new Buzz until he is knocked off the elevator by Rex. When they reach the ground floor, the new Buzz stays to play with Zurg once he discovers that Zurg is his father (echoing The Empire Strikes Back) while Buzz and the other toys continue their pursuit of Al.
Accompanied by three toy Aliens, they steal a Pizza Planet delivery truck and follow Al to Tri-County International Airport where they enter the check-in area, the baggage processing area to find Woody and the Roundup toys. During a fight with Woody, Stinky Pete rips his arm and tries to mutilate him, but is captured and stuffed into a little girl's Barbie backpack by Buzz and the other toys. While Woody and Bullseye are saved, Jessie ends up on the plane for Tokyo. Assisted by Buzz and Bullseye, Woody boards the plane and convinces Jessie to come with them to Andy's house, telling her that he has a little sister. However, the plane starts up before they can escape but they leave through an emergency hatch just as the plane gets onto the runway. Woody lassoes his string over a nut on the plane's wheels, and swings with Jessie between the plane wheels before landing on Bullseye just as the plane takes off. Buoyed up by living "Woody's Finest Hour," the toys go home.
Andy returns home, repairs Woody's arm, and accepts Jessie and Bullseye as his new toys. The toys also learn from a commercial that Al's business has suffered due to his failure to sell the Roundup toys. As Jessie and Bullseye delight in having a new owner, Woody tells Buzz that he is not worried about Andy outgrowing him, because when he does, they will always have each other for company "for infinity and beyond." Meanwhile, Wheezy has also been fixed and ends the film with an Elvis style version of "You've Got a Friend in Me."
Talk of a sequel to Toy Story began around a month after the film's opening, in December 1995. A few days after its release, Lasseter was traveling with his family and found a young boy clutching a Woody doll at an airport. Lasseter described the boy's excitement to show it to his father as touching him deeply. Lasseter then realized that his character no longer belonged to him only, it belonged to others as well. The memory was a defining factor in the production of Toy Story 2, with Lasseter moved to create a great film for that child and for everyone who loved the characters. Ed Catmull, Lasseter, and Ralph Guggenheim visited Joe Roth, successor to recently-ousted Jeffery Katzenberg as chairman of Walt Disney Studios, shortly afterward. Roth was pleased and embraced the idea. Disney had recently begun making direct-to-video sequels to its successful features, and Roth wanted to handle the Toy Story sequel this way, as well. Prior releases, such as 1994's Aladdin sequel, The Return of Jafar, had returned an estimated hundred million dollars in profits.
Initially, everything regarding the sequel was uncertain at first: whether stars Tom Hanks and Tim Allen would be available and affordable, what the story premise would be, and even whether the film would be computer-animated at Pixar or traditionally at Disney. Lasseter regarded the project as a chance to groom new directing talent, but top choices were already immersed in other projects (Andrew Stanton in A Bug's Life and Pete Docter in early development work for a film about monsters). Instead, Lasseter turned to Ash Brannon, a young directing animator on Toy Story whose work he admired. Brannon, a CalArts graduate, joined the Toy Story team in 1993. Walt Disney Studios and Pixar Animation Studios officially announced the sequel in a press release on March 12, 1997.
Lasseter's intention with a sequel was to respect the original film and create that world again. The story originated with Lasseter pondering what a toy would find upsetting. Lasseter wondered how a toy would feel if they were not played with by a child or, worse, a child growing out of a toy. Brannon suggested the idea of a yard sale where the collector recognizes Woody as a rare artifact. The concept of Woody as a collectible set came from the draft story of A Tin Toy Christmas, an original half-hour special pitched by Pixar to Disney in 1990. The obsessive toy collector known as Al McWhiggin, had appeared in a draft of Toy Story but was later expunged, was inserted into the film. Lasseter claimed that Al was inspired by himself.

Secondary characters in Woody's set emerged from viewings of 1950s cowboy shows for children, such as Howdy Doody and Hopalong Cassidy. The development of Jessie was kindled by Lasseter's wife, Nancy, who pressed him to include a strong female character in the sequel, one with more substance than Bo Peep.
The scope for the original Toy Story was very basic and only consisted over two residential homes, whereas Toy Story 2 has been described by Unkrich as "all over the map."
To make the project ready for theaters, Lasseter would need to add twelve minutes or so of material and strengthen what was already there. The extra material would be a challenge, since it could not be mere padding; it would have to feel as if it had always been there, an organic part of the film.
With the scheduled delivery date less than a year away, Lasseter called Stanton, Docter, Joe Ranft, and some Disney story people to his house for a weekend. There, he hosted a "story summit," as he called it - a crash exercise that would yield a finished story in just two days. Back at the office that Monday, Lasseter assembled the company in a screening room and pitched the revised version of Toy Story 2 from beginning to end.
Story elements were recycled from the original drafts of Toy Story. The original film's original opening sequence featured a Buzz Lightyear cartoon playing on television, which evolved into the Buzz Lightyear video game that would open Toy Story 2. A deleted scene from Toy Story, featuring Woody having a nightmare involving him being thrown into a trash can, was incorporated in a milder form for showing Woody's fear of losing Andy. The idea of a squeak-toy penguin with a broken squeaker also resurfaced from an early version of Toy Story.
As the story approached the production stage in early 1997, it was unclear whether Pixar would produce the film, as the entire team of 300 was busy working on A Bug's Life for a 1998 release. The Interactive Products Group, with a staff of 95, had its own animators, art department, and engineers. Under intense time pressure, they had put out two successful CD-ROM titles the previous year: The Toy Story Animated StoryBook and The Toy Story Activity Center. Between the two products, the group had created as much original animation as there was in Toy Story itself. Steve Jobs made the decision to shut down the computer games operation and the staff became the initial core of the Toy Story 2 production team.
Before the switch from direct-to-video to feature film, the Toy Story 2 crew had been on its own, placed in a new building that was well-separated from the rest of the company by railroad tracks. "We were just the small film and we were off playing in our sandbox," co-producer Karen Jackson said. Lasseter looked closely at every shot that had already been animated and called for tweaks throughout. The film reused digital elements from Toy Story but, true to the company's "prevailing culture of perfectionism,  it reused less of Toy Story than might be expected." Character models received major upgrades internally and shaders went through revisions to bring about subtle improvements. The team did, however, freely borrow models from other productions, such as Geri from Pixar's 1997 short Geri's Game, who became the Cleaner in Toy Story 2. Supervising animator Glenn McQueen inspired the animators to do spectacular work in the short amount of time given, assigning different shots to suit each animators' strengths.
Whilst producing Toy Story, the crew was very careful in creating new locations due to technology at that time. By production on Toy Story 2, technology had advanced farther to allow more complicated camera shots than were possible in the first film. In making the sequel, the team at Pixar didn't want to stray too far from the first film's look, but the company had developed a lot of new software since the first feature had been completed. To achieve the dust visible after Woody is placed on top of a shelf, the crew was faced with the challenge of animating dust, an incredibly difficult task. After much experimentation, a tiny particle of dust was animated and the computer distributed that image throughout the entire shelf. Over two million dust particles are in place on the shelf in the completed film.
Production problems were evident from the beginning. Disney soon became unhappy with the pace of the work on the film and demanded in June 1997 that Guggenheim be replaced as producer, and Pixar complied. As a result, Karen Jackson and Helene Plotkin, associate producers, moved up to the role of co-producers. Lasseter would remain fully preoccupied with A Bug's Life until it wrapped in the fall. Once available, he took over directing duties and added Lee Unkrich as co-director. Unkrich, also fresh from supervising editor duties on A Bug's Life, would focus on layout and cinematography while Brannon would be credited as co-director.
In November 1997, Disney executives Roth and Peter Schneider viewed the film's story reels, with some finished animation, in a screening room at Pixar. They were impressed with the quality of work and became interested in releasing Toy Story 2 in theaters. In addition to the unexpected artistic caliber, there were other reasons that made the case for a theatrical release more compelling. The economics of a direct-to-video Pixar release weren't working as well as hoped thanks to higher salaries of the crew. After negotiations, Jobs and Roth agreed that the split of costs and profits for Toy Story 2 would follow the model of a newly-created five-film deal - but Toy Story 2 would not count as one of the five films. Disney had bargained in the contract for five original features, not sequels, thus assuring five sets of new characters for its theme parks and merchandise. Jobs gathered the crew and announced the change in plans for the film on February 5, 1998.
However, many of the creative staff at Pixar were not happy with how the sequel was turning out. Lasseter, upon returning from European promotion of A Bug's Life, watched the development reels and agreed that it wasn't working. Pixar met with Disney, telling them that the film would have to be redone. Disney, however, disagreed, and noted that Pixar did not have enough time to remake the film before its established release date. Pixar decided that they simply could not allow the film to be released in its existing state, and asked Lasseter to take over the production. Lasseter agreed, and recruited the first film's creative team to redevelop the story. However, in order to meet Disney's deadline, Pixar had to complete the entire film in nine months. Unkrich, concerned with the dwindling amount of time left, asked Jobs whether the release date could be pushed back. Jobs explained that there was no choice, presumably in reference to the film's licensees and marketing partners, who were getting toys and promotions ready. Brannon focused on development, story and animation, Lasseter was in charge of art, modeling and lighting, and Unkrich oversaw editorial and layout. Since they met daily to discuss their progress with each other (they wanted to make sure they were all going in the same direction), the boundaries of their responsibilities overlapped.
As common with Pixar features, the production became difficult as delivery dates loomed and hours inevitably became longer. Still, Toy Story 2, with its highly compressed production schedule, was especially trying. While hard work and long hours were common to the team by that point (especially so to Lasseter), running flat-out on Toy Story 2 for month after month began to take a toll. The overwork spun out into carpal tunnel syndrome for some animators, and repetitive strain injuries for others. Pixar did not encourage long hours, and, in fact, set limits on how many hours employees could work by approving or disapproving overtime. An employee's self-imposed compulsion to excel, however, often trumped any other constraints, and was especially common to younger employees. In one instance, an animator had forgotten to drop his child off at day care one morning and, in a mental haze, forgotten the baby in the backseat of his car in the parking lot. "Although quick action by rescue workers headed off the worst, the incident became a horrible indicator that some on the crew were working too hard," wrote David Price in his 2008 book The Pixar Touch.
Toy Story 2: An Original Walt Disney Records Soundtrack is the original score soundtrack album to Toy Story 2. Although currently out of print in the U.S., the CD is available in the U.S. as an import and all but one song is available digitally.
All songs written and composed by Randy Newman.&#160;
Randy Newman wrote two new songs for Toy Story 2 as well as the complete original score:
The film carried over one song from Toy Story, "You're Got a Friend in Me," sung at different points during the film by Tom Hanks and Robert Goulet.
Pixar showed the completed film at CalArts on November 12, 1999, in recognition of the school's ties with Lasseter and more than forty other alumni who worked on the film; the students were captivated. The film held its official premiere the next day at the El Capitan Theatre in Los Angeles - the same venue as Toy Story's - and released across the United States on November 24.
The film was no less successful than its predecessor in a commercial perspective; it became 1999's highest-grossing animated film, earning $245 million domestically and $485 million worldwide - beating both of Pixar's previous releases by a significant margin. It was the second highest-grossing animated film of all-time for a time, behind Disney's The Lion King (1994). Toy Story 2 opened over the Thanksgiving Day weekend at No. 1 to a three-day tally of $57,388,839 from 3,236 theaters averaging $17,734 per theater over three days, making $80,102,784 since its Wednesday launch, and staying at No. 1 for the next two weekends. By New Year's Day, it had made more than $200 million in the U.S. alone, and it eventually made $245,852,179 domestically and $239,163,000 overseas for a total worldwide gross of $485,015,179, becoming 1999's third highest grossing film, and far surpassing the original.
Toy Story 2: Buzz Lightyear to the Rescue, a video game for the PC, PlayStation, Nintendo 64 and Dreamcast, was released. The game featured original cast voices and clips from the film as introductions to levels. Once earned, these clips could be viewed at the player's discretion. Another game was released for the Game Boy Color.
Toy Story 2 was released on VHS and DVD and as a DVD two-pack with Toy Story on October 17, 2000. That same day an "Ultimate Toy Box" set was released containing both films and a third disc of bonus materials. The standard VHS and DVD and the DVD two-pack and "Ultimate Toy Box" sets returned to the vault on May 1, 2003. On December 26, 2005, it was again re-released as a "2-Disc Special Edition" alongside the first film's 10th Anniversary Edition, which came out on September 6. Both editions returned to the vault on January 31, 2009.
The film was available on Blu-ray Disc for the first time in a Special Edition Combo Pack that was released on March 23, 2010, along with the first film. There was a DVD-only re-release on May 11, 2010.
On November 1, 2011, along with the DVD and Blu-ray release of Cars 2, Toy Story 2 and the other two films were released on each Blu-rayBlu-ray 3DDVDDigital Copy combo pack (4 discs each for the first two films, and 5 for the third film). They will also be released on Blu-ray 3D in a complete trilogy box set.
In 2009, Toy Story 2, alongside its predecessor, was converted to 3D for a two-week limited theatrical re-release. The film was released with Toy Story as a double feature for a two-week run which was extended due to its success. In addition, the film's sequel, Toy Story 3, was also released in the 3D format. Lasseter commented on the new 3D re-release: "The Toy Story films and characters will always hold a very special place in our hearts and we're so excited to be bringing this landmark film back for audiences to enjoy in a whole new way thanks to the latest in 3-D technology. With Toy Story 3 shaping up to be another great adventure for Buzz, Woody and the gang from Andy's room, we thought it would be great to let audiences experience the first two films all over again and in a brand new way."
Translating the films into 3D involved revisiting the original computer data and virtually placing a second camera into each scene, creating left-eye and right-eye views needed to achieve the perception of depth. Unique to computer animation, Lasseter referred to this process as "digital archaeology." The lead stereographer Bob Whitehill oversaw this process and sought to achieve an effect that impacted the film's emotional storytelling. It took four months to resurrect the old data and get it in working order. Then, adding 3D to each of the films took six months per film.
Unlike other countries, the U.K. and Argentina received the films in 3D as separate releases. Toy Story 2 was instead released January 22, 2010, in the U.K., and February 18, 2010, in Argentina. The double feature was opened in 1,745 theaters on October 2, 2009, and made $12,491,789 in its opening weekend, coming in third place at the box office. The feature(s) closed on November 5, 2009, with a worldwide gross of $32,284,600.
On June 12, 2010, in its broadcast on Disney Channel, the film received 7.479&#160;million viewers, making the number one show or film of the week.
Toy Story 2 was universally acclaimed by critics. Reviewers found the film to be a sequel that managed to equal or even outshine the original. "Toy Story 2 does what few sequels ever do," The Hollywood Reporter proclaimed. "Instead of essentially remaking an earlier film and deeming it a sequel, the creative team, led by director John Lasseter, delves deeper into their characters while retaining the fun spirit of the original film."
Review aggregate website Rotten Tomatoes reports that 100% of critics have given the film a positive review based on 161 reviews, with an average score of 8.610. The film is currently No. 1 on Rotten Tomatoes' list of best rated films. Rotten Tomatoes summarizes the critical consensus thus: "Toy Story 2 employs inventive storytelling, gorgeous animation, and a top notch voice cast to deliver another rich moviegoing experience for all ages, one that's arguably even better than its predecessor." Toy Story, Toy Story 2 and Toy Story 3 are all Pixar's highest-rated films to date. It currently holds a 100% approval from critics, and 92% from the community, while the original holds a 96% community rating and the best rated animated film. The film also holds an 88 out of 100 on Metacritic. It joins the rare number of sequels judged to be "as good as or better than the original." Roger Ebert gave the film three-and-a-half stars out of four and said in his print review "I forgot something about toys a long time ago, and Toy Story 2 reminded me." Kenneth Turan of the Los Angeles Times said "Toy Story 2 may not have the most original title, but everything else about it is, well, mint in the box." Entertainment Weekly said "It's a great, IQ-flattering entertainment both wonderful and wise."
Unkrich regarded the film with pride while remembering the difficulty of meeting its due date. "Even though Toy Story 2 really killed us in a lot of ways - it was really, really hard - I probably look back on that film the most fondly in terms of how we all came together and did this impossible thing."
The list of nominations include: An Oscar for Best Music; Original Song for Randy Newman's "When She Loved Me", A Saturn Award for Best Fantasy Film and Randy Newman for Best Music. The film was also in the running for two Annie's: One was Outstanding Achievement for character animation; Doug Sweetland. The other Annie nomination was for Outstanding Individual Achievement for Production Design in an animated Feature Production; William Cone and Jim Pearson. Ruth Lambert was nominated for an Artios award for Best Casting for Animated Voiceover- Feature Film. On top of all the others Randy Newman was also nominated for a golden globe in the category Best Original Song- Motion Picture for his song "When She loved Me". Yet another nomination Randy Newman received was Best Score Soundtrack for a Motion Picture, Television or Other Visual Media. Tim Allen and Tom Hanks both were nominated for Blimp Awards in the category of Favorite Voice from an Animated Movie. The film was nominated for the same award under the category of favorite film. It was nominated for two Sierra Awards: one for Best Animated Film, and the other for Best Song "When She Loved Me". Hanks and Allen were both nominated for another award, this time an MTV Movie Award for Best On-Screen Duo. There were a lot of nominations for a Golden Reel Award, Best Sound Editing- Animated Feature: Michael Silvers (supervising sound editor), Mary Helen Leasman (supervising foley editor), Michael Silvers (supervising adr editor), Shannon Mills (sound editor), Teresa Eckton (sound editor), Susan Sanford (foley editor), Bruce Lacey (foley editor) and Jonathan Null (adr editor). It was thought Bruno Coon (supervising music editor) and Lisa Jaime (music editor) would also get a Golden Reel but for Best Sound Editing- Music-Animation. The Online Film Critics Society, appointed Toy Story 2 for 2 of their awards. One was Best Film, the other was John Lasseter and Pete Doctor for best original screenplay. Nickelodeon's Teen Choice Awards suggested Joan Cusack to get their award for Film- Choice Hissy Fit, she did not win.
The American Society of Composers, Artists and Publishers gave the films first award to Randy Newman for Top Box Office Films. Seven Annies were won, but none of them were previous nominations. The first went to Pixar for Outstanding Achievement in an Animated Theatrical Feature. Outstanding Individual Achievement for Directing in an Animated Feature Production was given to John Lasseter, Lee Unkrich and Ash Brannon. Randy Newman won an annie for Outstanding Individual Achievement for Music in an Animated Feature Production. Joan Cusack won Outstanding Individual Achievement for Voice Acting by a Female Performer in an animated feature Production. Tim Allen got the same award for males. The final Annie was received by John Lasseter, Pete Docter, Ash Brannon, Andrew Stanton, Rita Hsiao, Doug Chamberlin and Chris Webb for Outstanding Individual Achievement for Writing in an Animated Feature Production. The film also won many awards by itself. One of them is the Blockbuster Entertainment Award for Favorite Family Film on the internet. The Critics Choice Award for Best Animated Film, the Bogey Award and a Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture-Musical Comedy were also won. Along with his other awards, Randy Newman and his song "When She Loved Me" won a Grammy for Best Song Written for a Motion Picture, Television or Other Visual Media. The Kansas City Film Critics Circle award Woody and the gang for Best Animated Film. A Satellite Award was given for Outstanding Youth DVD, and a Golden Satellite Award for Best Motion Picture, Animated or Mixed Media, and one for Best Original Song "When She Loved Me". And a Young Artist Award for Best Family Feature Film - Animated.
One Pixar tradition is to create trailers for their films that do not contain footage from the released film. In one trailer for Toy Story 2 (released theatrically with A Bug's Life, Doug's 1st Movie, and Tarzan), the aliens watch the metal claw they worship coming down. The claw first brings down the words Toy Story, and the aliens react with their trademark "Oooooh." The claw next brings down the number '2'; in reaction, the aliens turn to face the camera and parody themselves with a "Twoooo." Then Woody appears, saying "Hey howdy hey, folks! It's good to be back." He is swiftly disappointed when Buzz shows up as well, and expresses his annoyance that the Space Ranger is also in the sequel. Buzz retorts, "Excuse me, Pullstring Boy, what would Toy Story 2 be without Buzz Lightyear?" "A good movie," counters Woody.
Another trailer (released theatrically with Muppets from Space and The Adventures of Elmo in Grouchland) shows shots from the film that are featured.
The film's initial theatrical and video releases include Luxo Jr., Pixar's first short film released in 1986, starring Pixar's titular mascot. Before Luxo Jr., a message states: "In 1986 Pixar Animation Studios produced their first film. This is why we have a hopping lamp in our logo".
Woody the Cowboy, Buzz Lightyear, and the rest of their friends from the toy box return in this computer-animated sequel to the 1995 hit Toy Story. This time around, Andy, the young boy who is the proud owner of most of our cast of characters, is off at summer camp, giving the toys a few weeks off to do as they please. Woody (voice of Tom Hanks) is unaware that in the years since his model went out of production, he's become a rare and valuable collector's item. An avid toy collector (voice of Wayne Knight) decides that he wants Woody for his collection and swipes him, so Buzz Lightyear (voice of Tim Allen), Hamm (voice of John Ratzenberger), Rex (voice of Wallace Shawn), Slinky Dog (voice of Jim Varney), and Mr. Potato Head (voice of Don Rickles) venture forth to rescue their kidnapped friend before Andy returns. Along with most of the original voice cast, composer Randy Newman returns with a new score and new songs. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All Toy Story 2 Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 92&nbsp;mins
