Painted Skin: The Resurrection is a 2012 Chinese fantasy action film directed by Wuershan, starring Chen Kun, Zhao Wei, Zhou Xun, Yang Mi, Feng Shaofeng, Fei Xiang, and Chen Tingjia. The film reunites most of the original cast of the 2008 film Painted Skin.
An ancient fox spirit embarks on a diabolical quest to become human after escaping an icy prison, and becomes bound to a disfigured princess who seeks the love of a noble guard as her kingdom crumbles in this lavish supernatural epic. Confined to a frozen cell for centuries, malevolent fox spirit Xiaowei regains her freedom and seeks to preserve her beauty by seducing men and consuming their hearts. Should a man offer her his heart willingly, Xiaowei will become mortal, breaking free of the underworld and experiencing living among the living. Meanwhile, as a dark cloud falls over her kingdom, Princess Jing flees, hiding her deep facial scars under a mask of pure gold while seeking the love of her former protector, who remains haunted by his failure to save her years prior. When destiny brings Xiaowei and Princess Jing together, the battle for the princess' heart begins.
The film received an 83% approval rating from critics on aggregate site Rotten Tomatoes from 6 critics. After Painted Skin: The Resurrection premiered in China, critics praised two leading actresses, especially Zhao Wei's breakthrough performance. Audience named Zhao "the most beautiful scarred woman ever seen".
Derek Elley from Film Business Asia wrote:
"The result is a very entertaining, slightly over-long costume fantasy whose performances and sheer technique carry a script that often punches above its weight."..." Zhou, who since Suzhou River (1999) has almost had the Mainland patent on sexually ambiguous, seductive roles, dominates the movie, as a demon who wants to be human even if it means pain. But she gets a run for her money from Zhao, who's developing much more screen gravitas in her mid-30s and is better directed here than in her previous female-warrior role in Jingle Ma's Mulan (2009). Zhao's scenes with Zhou are much more emotionally resonant than those with the weak-eyed Chen, her putative romantic partner."
Deborah Young from The Hollywood Reporter wrote:
"The result is a roller-coaster of a film that will divide audiences particularly along gender lines, having greater appeal for female viewers both because it is fundamentally a love story with a noble, long-haired, romantic hero, and thanks to the presence of four strong and powerful women characters who run the show. Performances run surprisingly deep, and the bond that links Jing and Xiaowei, in particular, rings very true in spite of the square-off between divas Zhou Xun and Zhao Wei."
In mainland China, Painted Skin: The Resurrection scored the highest grossing opening for a local film and the third highest opening following the 3-D re-release of Titanic (1997) and Transformers: Dark of the Moon. With total box office gross of $115.07 million, the film became the highest grossing domestic film in China beating the previous record holder Let the Bullets Fly. This record was beat by the Chinese film Lost in Thailand (2012).
An ancient fox spirit embarks on a diabolical quest to become human after escaping an icy prison, and becomes bound to a disfigured princess who seeks the love of a noble guard as her kingdom crumbles in this lavish supernatural epic. Confined to a frozen cell for centuries, malevolent fox spirit Xiaowei (Xun Zhou) regains her freedom and seeks to preserve her beauty by seducing men and consuming their hearts. Should a man offer her his heart willingly, Xiaowei will become mortal, breaking free of the underworld and experiencing true life once again. Meanwhile, as a dark cloud falls over her kingdom, Princess Jing (Wei Zhao) flees, hiding her deep facial scars under a mask of pure gold while seeking the love of her former protector, who remains haunted by his failure to save her years prior. When destiny brings Xiaowei and Princess Jing together, the battle for the princess' heart begins. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviDirector(s):Wu ErshanWriter(s):Ran Ping,&nbsp;Ran Jia NanProducer(s):Wang Ruojun,&nbsp;Wang Zhonglei,&nbsp;Li Yiqing
