Wrong Turn 5: Bloodlines is a 2012 American horror film and the fifth installment in the Wrong Turn film series that began with Wrong Turn and was followed by Wrong Turn 2: Dead End, Wrong Turn 3: Left for Dead and Wrong Turn 4: Bloody Beginnings. The film serves as a second prequel and continues chronologically where Wrong Turn 4: Bloody Beginnings left off. The film was released direct-to-DVD on October 23, 2012.
After the cannibals Three Fingers, Saw Tooth and One Eye escape through Glensville Sanatorium, returning with their unmutated father Maynard (Doug Bradley), the old man of the first two films. The four shows the murder of a corridor nearby city of Fairlake, Greenbrier County, West Virginia, and dragging his body back to his cabin.
Meanwhile, five friends; Billy (Simon Ginty), his girlfriend Cruz (Amy Lennox), Lita (Roxanne McKee), her boyfriend Gus (Paul Luebke) and Julian (Oliver Hoare) are on their way to Fairlake, West Virginia to celebrate the Mountain Man Festival. Along the way, they almost run over Maynard who attacks them. Billy, Gus and Julian attack Maynard out of self-defense, but are all apprehended along with Lita and Cruz by Sheriff Angela (Camilla Arfwedson) and her partner Deputy Biggs (Kyle Redmond Jones). While Sheriff Angela leaves to take them to the police station, the cannibals appear and kill Deputy Biggs.
After being locked up in the police station, Billy confesses to Sheriff Carter that he owns his friends' drugs as he was stayed at the police station and they left. Meanwhile, the cannibals drive to the city, killing a guard at the power plant and shut the town's electricity. Meanwhile, The teens register at a motel to stay. On her way to visit Billy, Cruz is chased by Three-Finger who kills her. After leaving the motel, Julian went back to the police station, only to learn that Cruz did not return.
At the motel, The cannibals capture Gus when he answers the door while Lita is preparing to have a shower. Lita is attacked too, but she manages to escape. Gus is then tied between a tree stump and a truck, where he has his legs smashed up horrifically by the cannibals. Sheriff Carter sees the cannibals drop Gus, who had his legs crippled by them. Sheriff Carter attempts to save him, but the cannibals run over with their pick-up truck, killing him. Carter frees Billy and gives him, Julian and another prisoner Mose (Duncan Wisbey) their shotguns. The Sheriff manages to communicate with someone in the next town asking them to call for backup. The Sherrif then warns Julian and Billy not to go looking for cruz after they insist on going. but they ignore her warning and go in search of Cruz. They wander the streets with the hillbillys chasing them. They get captured and then decapitated. The drunk named Mose in the other cell is freed and offers to help Carter since nobody else is around. Sherrif Carter then sends Mose to go search for the Deputies but he unknowingly runs over spikes in the road and crashes. He awakens to find himself captured by the hillbillys and they burn him alive. Lita releases Maynard believing he will let her live but he stabs her eyes out. Sherrif Carter tries to go for help but discovers her husband bound in a car and tries to help him but discovers too late its a trap and he dies, she then gets knocked out and captured. She awakens in the jail cell and Maynard gives her a choice of dying by a shotgun to the head or burning alive. Lita is then seen walking down the road asking for help when a truck stops revealing its the hillbillys. They capture her and drive away.
Wrong Turn 5: Bloodlines was released on DVD and Blu-Ray on October 23, 2012 in Canada and the United States, by Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment.  The Blu-ray edition is a two-disc set which includes a Blu-ray disc of the feature film, as well as a DVDDigital Copy disc. 

As swarms of costumed college students descend on a secluded West Virginia town for the annual Mountain Man festival, a hungry clan of inbred cannibals prepares to feast like kings. Doug Bradley, Roxanne McKee, and Camilla Arfwedson star. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Wrong Turn 5: Bloodlines Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 91&nbsp;mins
