Why Stop Now is a 2012 American comedy-drama film written and directed by newcomer Phil Dorling and Ron Nyswaner. It is a feature-length adaptation of their 2008 short film, Predisposed. It stars Jesse Eisenberg, Melissa Leo and Tracy Morgan.
Eli Bloom is a young piano prodigy and supermarket clerk who gets wasted the night before his audition for a prestigious music conservatory. In the morning, he has to take his mother, Penny, to rehab for her drug abuse, and his younger sister, Nicole, to school, where her teacher, Lisa, tells Eli that Nicole's sock-puppet friend has been insulting her classmates. Promising to take care of it, Eli takes off to drop Penny off, but she does not qualify for rehab due to lack of insurance. At the center, a nurse tells Penny to go out, get high, and come back with "dirty urine" to get in. Penny enlists Eli to go see her drug dealer, Sprinkles, for cocaine. She doesn't go inside because she owes Sprinkles money. While visiting Sprinkles and his companion Black, Eli becomes the translator for Sprinkles and his dealer, Eduardo.
Meeting Eduardo at a Mexican restaurant, Eli translates what turns into an argument and is shoved to the floor by Eduardo, injuring his right hand, thus putting his audition in jeopardy. Now, with little time on his hands, Eli, Penny, Sprinkles, and Black have to pick up Nicole and in the ensuing car ride, Eli accidentally consumes Penny's oxycodone pills and Black throws Nicole's sock-puppet out the window. They drop Nicole off at Penny's sister Trish's, who doesn't like having Penny around because of her drug habit and she allegedly "completely ruined last Christmas". Eli talks Trish into watching Nicole for a couple hours while he, Penny, and his "colleagues from the supermarket" go do some stuff. Arriving as the girl before him finishes, Eli begins to play his piece but fails to finish because of his injured hand and attitude from the pills.
Leaving the auditorium, embarrassed, Sprinkles shows Eli and Penny the trophy he won but did not get recognition for his track record.
The film had its premiere at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival on January 27, 2012 and had a limited theatrical release in the US on August 17, 2012. 
The film currently holds a 25% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based 20 reviews and a 36/100 score on Metacritic based on 10 reviews. Film critic Roger Ebert gave Why Stop Now a rating of three-and-a-half stars (out of four) commenting: "Week after week, we get dimwitted comedies, and then a charmer like this comes along, and it gets a limited release. 'Why Stop Now' is a bright screwball comedy about one fraught day in the life of a piano prodigy, his crackhead mother and her drug dealers."
Jesse Eisenberg, Melissa Leo, and Tracy Morgan headline Ron Nyswaner and Phil Dorling's quirky comedy about a young piano prodigy who recruits a pair of drug dealers to help his troubled mother get high, thus qualifying her for rehab, as he prepares for a crucial audition that could determine his future as a musician. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Why Stop Now Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 88&nbsp;mins
