Thunderstruck is a 2012 children's film starring NBA player for the Oklahoma City Thunder Kevin Durant, along with Taylor Gray, Jim Belushi, Brandon T. Jackson, and Doc Shaw, and directed by John Whitesell. It was released on August 24, 2012.
Brian is a 16 year-old who can't play basketball, but he still wants to play like his hero, Kevin Durant. At an Oklahoma City Thunder game, Brian gets chosen to shoot a half court shot which he misses and hits the mascot in the process. Later on, he gets a chance to meet Durant and expresses his desire to play just like him. When Kevin gives Brian the ball, the two (unknowingly) switch talents. Brian becomes a high school phenomenon and Durant is stuck in a supposed "slump". Brian's success comes to the attention of Kevin's agent, who figures out what happened to his client. With the Thunder on the verge of missing the playoffs, Brian and the agent try to give Kevin his talent back. But in order to give back his talent, he had to hit the Thunder mascot, Rumble and go all the way back when Kevin said Hard work beats talent when talent fails to work hard. But Brian has to say what Kevin said since he had the talent. The switch works, but Brian has his game to make it to the playoffs. He plays as himself and Brian makes a last second buzzer-beater making it 63 - 62. The Thunder and the Eagles (Brian's team) make the playoffs.
While shooting the film, Durant said that the hardest part was not the acting, but rather the fact that he had to miss jump shots on purpose for the film, to indicate that he no longer had the ability to play basketball as well as he used to.
The first trailer for the film was released on June 7, 2012.
Rotten Tomatoes reports that 20% of 10 critics praised the film with an average score of 4.2/10. The audience gave the film a "fresh" 70% rating.
A teenage basketball fan inadvertently steals his NBA idol's talent in this sports comedy for the entire family. Brian loves basketball. He can't make a free shot to save his life, but he dreams of the day when he'll learn to dunk like basketball superstar Kevin Durant. Then, one night at an NBA game, Brian is called down to the boards to make a half-court shot, and something magical happens. The moment Kevin hands Brian the ball, his dazzling skills are transferred to the bumbling young fan. Now Brian can play ball like pro, and Kevin can barely dribble. With the championship game fast approaching and Kevin's career on the line, young Brian must figure out a way to get his sports hero back in the action, even if it means giving up the ability to outplay everyone on the court. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Thunderstruck Trailers and ClipsDirector(s):John WhitesellWriter(s):Eric Champnella,&nbsp;Jeff FarleyProducer(s):Mike Karz
