The Decoy Bride is a British romantic comedy film written by comedian Sally Phillips and Neil Jaworski, and starring David Tennant, Alice Eve and Kelly Macdonald. The film was made by Ecosse Films.
Lara Tyler (Alice Eve) is one of the most famous film stars around, but all she wants to do is marry her fiance, writer James Arber (David Tennant). Besieged by paparazzi, especially Marco Ballani (Federico Castelluccio), who is obsessed with Lara, they escape to the tiny Scottish island of Hegg to try to wed in peace. However, when the paparazzi track them down, and with the locals smelling a payday, Lara becomes upset and runs away. In desperation her management team, led by Steve Korbitz (Michael Urie), decide to stage a fake wedding, hoping the paparazzi will fall for the scam and leave the island. Local girl Katie (Kelly Macdonald), who is nursing a broken heart, is recruited to pretend to be Lara. But is James really sure Lara is his true love?
Rehearsals started in London on 21 June 2010. Filming began on 27 June on the Isle of Man, before moving to Scotland. Filming ended on 31 July 2010. The score is written by Julian Nott.
CinemaNX distributed the film in the United Kingdom and HanWay Films are the international sales agent.
A jilted bride enters into an unusual arrangement with a Hollywood actress and gets a second chance at true love in this romance starring David Tennant and Kelly MacDonald. Abandoned at the altar on the biggest day of her life, Katie (MacDonald) retreats back to her home on a small Scottish island and prepares to live the rest of her life alone. Shortly thereafter, however, Hollywood icon Lara Tyler (Alice Eve) decides that the very same island would be the ideal setting for her upcoming marriage to her handsome fiancée James (Tennant). But try as Lara might to keep the location of her nuptials a secret, the paparazzi soon descend on the island cameras in hand, eager to get the scoop. In a clever bid to trick the opportunistic shutterbugs, Lara recruits Katie to pose as the bride and walk down the aisle. As the big day draws near, however, everyone involved discovers just how complicated true love can be. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Decoy Bride Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 89&nbsp;mins
