Exit Strategy is a 2012 American independent romantic comedy film directed by Michael Whitton and starring Jameel Saleem, Kimelia Weathers, Quincy "QDeezy" Harris, with cameo appearances by L.A. radio host Big Boy and stand-up comedian Kevin Hart. Saleem plays a man whose main goal is to not get the girl, but to lose her—thus marketed as a self-described "un-romantic comedy." The film originated as a seven-part web series that had been running since 2007.
James (Jameel Saleem), likeable but irresponsible, moves in with his take-charge girlfriend of three months Kim (Kimelia Weathers), and quickly discovers she’s everything he never wanted in a woman. With advice from his childhood best friends and second-hand goods store co-workers Carville (Quincy "QDeezy" Harris) and Leona (Noelle Balfour), he tries to make the relationship work instead of being homeless; but may have to be resigned to his new life and living situation: chores and no football on Sundays, snoring instead of sleep, and no TV in the bedroom—ever! But after a disastrous dinner with Kim’s father, and on the advice of high-schooler Scoop, strangers Big Boy and customer Mannequin Head Man (Kevin Hart), James tries to get her to break up with him but still let him sleep on the couch. It doesn’t work, and James has to tell Kim the painful truth, making her realize he wasn’t what she wanted after all.
(in order of appearance)
Exit Strategy was independently made for under $100,000by Ask Around Productions in association with Big Boy's Ida's Son Productions. The film was shot on the 5D camera in 14 days; and in order to finish the film, the first-time director took on a lot of the laptop-based post-production work.
Kellie Maltagliati, one of the film's producers, credits the ability to make this film on a shoestring budget, and release it, on both cast and crew dedication and the recent technological advancements of digital filming, post-production, exhibition, and marketing.
Exit Strategy received a limited U.S. release on February 10, 2012 in AMC Theatres, then expanded nationwide in Rave Cinemas and Bow-Tie Cinemas on March 9, 2012.
The film was made available June 5, 2012 on DVD, VOD, and digital download.
Exit Strategy is considered by some as one of the most popular comedy feature films released in 2012.
The official motion picture soundtrack, Music Featured In And Inspired By Exit Strategy, was released on February 6, 2012 by Ocean View Entertainment.
When a sudden eviction prompts James (Jameel Saleem) to move in with his new girlfriend Kim (Kimelia Weathers), the sudden realization that she's completely insane leaves him scrambling for an excuse to break off the relationship and reclaim his independence. James and Kim have only been dating for three months when James is suddenly forced out of his apartment. Moving in with Kim seems like a given at first, but now the more time he spends with her, the more certain he becomes that they're a match made in hell. Desperate, James turns to his pals Carville (Quincy "Qdeezy" Harris) and Leona (Noelle Balfour) for tips on how to let Kim off easy, but when subtlety fails, the frustrated boyfriend realizes he's got his work cut out for him. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Exit Strategy Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 90&nbsp;mins
