Take Me Home is a 2011 American romantic comedy film directed by Sam Jaeger, starring himself and his wife Amber Jaeger, receiving Best Actor award at the Napa Valley Film Festival for her performance in this film. The film received Audience Choice awards at many film festivals like Boston Film Festival, Rhode Island International Film Festival etc.,
After getting turned down for a job, Thom finds his landlord throwing all of his belongings into the hallway. With no job prospects and no place to sleep, he turns to driving his illegal taxicab around the streets of New York. Fortunately for him, Claire Barrow isn't having a good day, either. Her husband is flirting with his secretary and her estranged father has suffered a heart attack in California. In a frenzy, she hails what she assumes to be a cab. What she gets instead ... is Thom. With her life in ruins, Claire decides to pay Thom to drive her out to California and he reluctantly agrees. The path across America takes more than the usual detours and that forces them to choose between the lives they've left behind, and the possibilities glimpsed along their journey
The film has received positive reviews. Amy Handler of Film Threat wrote,"Pure magic! The best romantic comedy I’ve seen in years." Connect Savannah wrote,"If you can only see one movie during the Savannah Film Festival this year, make it the independent feature Take Me Home. The film is funny, unpredictable, touching, beautifully paced - and extremely well-made. I predict it will be Hollywood's next My Big Fat Greek Wedding, the dark horse to come from behind. In light of all the crapola that the big studios continue to turn out these days, Take Me Home is a revelation." Pierce Carson of Napa Valley Register wrote, "Truly engrossing and definitely funny, this classic road movie shows how a little cross-country drive can lead something no one ever expected. This low-budget indie is so good that I expect it will be one of hits of 2012. “Take Me Home” is worthy of an Academy Award or two." William Bitterman for Sound on Sight wrote, "The story has the makings of a romantic comedy goldmine." ScoreCardReview.com wrote,"Take Me Home is part romantic comedy and part road movie. Fans of either genre will find themselves enchanted with the chemistry between the two and the sincerity of its charm." Mateo Mareno for BigVisionEmptyWallet.com wrote, "Once and awhile, a film comes out of nowhere and knocks your socks off. What it does have is a great cast of actors, a surprising script, and a lot of heart. What unfolds is a touching, funny, and refreshingly original comedy/drama that both reminds us of classic films while bringing in something new at the same time. A down to earth, extremely accessible film that is funny without even trying to be funny and heartwarming without ever becoming cheesy." VideoViews.org wrote, "This is one of the best romantic comedies I have seen in a very long time, the writing is hilarious, tender and clever from start to finish. Already a winner of multiple awards and for good reason, "Take Me Home" is a funny, fast-paced road trip that's while worth taking. I cannot recommend seeing this film enough, it's a triumph in Independent cinema that deserves to be seen. "
Monterey Media released the Region 1 DVD on May 29, 2012.
A simple New York cab ride leads an unemployed photographer and a woman with a failing marriage on a journey that will change both of their lives forever - if they don't wind up killing one another first - in this heartwarming romantic comedy from writer/director Sam Jaeger. Talented photographer Thom has just received his latest job rejection when his landlord unceremoniously evicts him from his modest New York City apartment. Desperate to stay afloat despite his dire circumstances, Thom begins cruising the streets in his illegal taxi in search of a few fares. When Claire Barrow gets into the back seat, she's still reeling from finding her husband in a compromising position with his new secretary. To make matters worse, her estranged father in California has just suffered a major heart attack. With nothing tying her to New York City anymore, Claire agrees to pay Thom $5000 to drive her to California. As the city fades in Thom's rear-view mirror, the unlikely traveling companions begin to see a whole new world of possibilities unfolding right before them. And despite the hitting the occasional bump in the road, they both quickly realize that sometimes it's the unexpected moments in life than make it truly worth living. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Take Me Home Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 97&nbsp;mins
