Fred 3: Camp Fred is a 2012 comedy film directed by Jonathan Judge as the third film in the Fred film series, following Fred 2: Night of the Living Fred. Released on July 28, 2012, the film stars Lucas Cruikshank, Tom Arnold, Jake Weary, and John Cena.
Following the last day of school, Fred Figglehorn (Lucas Cruikshank) reveals his hopes to attend Camp Superior, a summer camp that is considered a paradise. Fred's hopes are dashed when he learns his mother is sending him to Camp Iwannapeepee, a camp Fred finds horrible. At Iwannapeepee, he meets head counselor Floyd Spunkmeyer (Tom Arnold), and a host of other campers, Magoo (Joey Bragg), Chatter (Matthew Scott Miller), Spoon (Leah Lewis), and Dig (Adrian Kali Turner), and is introduced to Oksana, a beautiful but inept nurse. At night Fred has disturbing dreams of being at home, but wakes to find he is still at camp.
Fred learns that Camp Iwannapeepee and Camp Superior have been competing in summer camp games for sixty-nine years and that Superior has always won. He also thinks he has unearthed a plot to drug the food of the Iwannapeepee campers, in order for a giant rat to eat their brains. Avoiding the gruel, Fred instead eats hallucinogenic red berries. He then learns that rather than being drugged, the Iwannapeepee gruel has been laced with super vitamins. When he learns that his arch rival Kevin (Jake Weary) is on the team from Superior, Fred becomes determined to defeat the rival camp. During the contest, Kevin tries to sabotage Fred, but his plans fail against him and Camp Iwannapeepee finally wins.
In December 2011, it was announced that Lucas Cruikshank would be starring as Fred Figglehorn in a live action Nickelodeon series and in a third Fred film. Varsity Pictures and The Collective, who had produced the first film, would be producing the third.
The film's initial American airing, on Nickelodeon on July 28, 2012, was watched by 3.5 million viewers. This was a 39% decline from the 5.7 million viewers, the previous film, Fred 2: Night of the Living Fred premiered with, and ranked eighteenth in top cable programming for the week.
Fred 3: Camp Fred was released on DVD on December 4, 2012. It was also released in a triple pack along with Fred 1 and 2.
Fred Figglehorn's trip to summer camp turns into a total bust after his mother mistakenly signs him up to attend the dreaded Camp Iwannapeepee. School's out, and now it's time for some serious fun in the sun. But when Fred (Lucas Cruikshank) realizes that his mother has accidentally enrolled him in Camp Iwannapeepee, dark clouds seem to gather overhead. Is outwardly-amiable camp director Floyd (Tom Arnold) in fact a hideous rat monster who feasts on unsuspecting campers? And if so, what can Fred's muscle-bound father (John Cena) do to help him get back home alive? Meanwhile, as Camp Iwannapeepee prepares to face Kevin's Camp Superior in the annual Summer Camp Games, Fred makes the most of his miserable vacation with a little help from some new friends. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Fred 3: Camp Fred Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 80&nbsp;mins
