Jeff, Who Lives at Home is a comedy-drama film starring Jason Segel and Ed Helms, directed and written by Jay and Mark Duplass and co-starring Judy Greer and Susan Sarandon. The film premiered on September 14, 2011 at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival and then saw a limited release in USA and Canada on March 16, 2012, after having been pushed back from the original date of March 2.
The film is about two brothers who reside in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Jeff (Segel) is a 30-year-old unemployed stoner, living in his mother's basement. His older brother Pat (Helms) struggles with a failing marriage. Their widowed mother, Sharon (Sarandon), is disappointed with Jeff and with her unfulfilled dreams.
Jeff looks for his destiny in seemingly random occurrences. He finds inspiration in the feature film Signs, which reinforces his belief in his outlook. One day, he answers the telephone; it's a wrong number, from somebody asking for "Kevin," and Jeff contemplates the meaning of this and decides it's a sign. He pursues people or things named Kevin as a result.
After coincidentally meeting his brother Pat, they suspect that Pat's wife, Linda (Greer), is cheating on him. They try to determine how to handle the situation. Meanwhile, Sharon finds some solace in a "secret admirer" sending her messages at work. Throughout a day of random meetings and emotional revelations, Jeff, Pat, Sharon, and Sharon's secret admirer come together in a traffic jam on a bridge, and Jeff finally finds what he's looking for.
The film grossed $840,000 in its opening weekend.
Jeff, Who Lives at Home grossed $4,269,426 in North America and $148,154 elsewhere, for a worldwide of $4,417,580.
The film received generally positive reviews. At Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a positive "fresh" rating of 78%, based on 127 reviews and an average rating of 6.7/10, with the critical consensus saying, "Sweet, funny, and flawed, Jeff, Who Lives at Home finds the Duplass brothers moving into the mainstream with their signature quirky charm intact". It also has a score of 60 on Metacritic based on 33 reviews, indicating "mixed or average reviews".
Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times describes Jeff, Who Lives at Home as "a whimsical comedy  on the warmth of Segel and Sarandon, the discontent of Helms and Greer, and still more warmth that enters at midpoint with Carol (Rae Dawn Chong), Sarandon's co-worker at the office." He concluded that "it's not a Feel Good Movie, more of a Feel Sorta Good Movie." Peter Travers of Rolling Stone writes that the film is "funny, touching, and vital" praising the Duplass brothers by saying that "their films hit you where you live."
Jeff, Who Lives at Home was released on DVD and Blu-ray on June 19, 2012.
Directing brothers Jay and Mark Duplass examine fate and family in the comedy Jeff, Who Lives at Home, starring Jason Segel as the title character, a slacker who still lives with his mother. He spends the vast majority of his time smoking pot and explaining how he's waiting to understand his own fate, using the film Signs as the model for how he takes in the world. His brother Pat (Ed Helms) is a salesman in a mid-life crisis having purchased a sweet new sports car over the objections of his wife (Judy Greer). After Jeff answers the phone and a voice demands to speak to "Kevin," the stoner believes this is the sign he's been waiting for. During the course of the day, Jeff and Pat will confront their issues with each other, while their long-suffering mother (Susan Sarandon) may find love for the first time since the death of her husband. The film played at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. ~ Perry Seibert, RoviSee All Jeff, Who Lives at Home Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 82&nbsp;mins
