American Reunion (also known as American Pie: Reunion in certain countries) is a 2012 ensemble comedy film written and directed by Jon Hurwitz and Hayden Schlossberg. It is the fourth installment in the American Pie theatrical series and eighth installment in the American Pie film series overall.
Due to the film's success, it was revealed that a sequel under the name American Pie 5 is coming with Jon Hurwitz and Hayden Schlossberg coming back as directors and screenwriters.
Thirteen years after graduating high school, Jim Levenstein (Jason Biggs), Chris "Oz" Ostreicher (Chris Klein), Kevin Myers (Thomas Ian Nicholas), Paul Finch (Eddie Kaye Thomas), and Steve Stifler (Seann William Scott) are well-established in their lives and careers. Jim is still married to Michelle (Alyson Hannigan) and they now have a two-year-old son, Evan. Since the birth of their son, Jim and Michelle's sex life has deteriorated. Oz is an NFL sportscaster living in Los Angeles with his supermodel girlfriend Mia (Katrina Bowden). Kevin is married to Ellie and works from home as an architect. Finch tells his friends that he has been traveling the world, and still searching for his one true love. Stifler works as a temp at an investment firm, where he is also the victim of cruel verbal abuse by his arrogant employer.
Former classmate John (John Cho), one half of the 'MILF' duo, organizes a Class of 1999 high school reunion in East Great Falls. Jim and Michelle return to Jim's old home, where his father Noah (Eugene Levy) is now a widower. Jim encounters his neighbor Kara (Ali Cobrin), whom he used to babysit and who is soon to turn 18. Jim meets Oz, Kevin and Finch at a bar, where they meet Selena Vega (Dania Ramirez), a former classmate and Michelle's best friend from band. Stifler happens by, and joins them for weekend activities.
The next day, the group goes to the beach. Oz meets his high school girlfriend, Heather (Mena Suvari), who is dating a heart doctor named Ron (Jay Harrington), and Kevin reconnects with Vicky (Tara Reid). The guys have an altercation with Kara's boyfriend A.J. (Chuck Hittinger) and his friends, which ends with Stifler defecating in their beer cooler and destroying their jet skis. That night, the guys and girls minus Michelle, go to the falls and find a high school party celebrating Kara's birthday. Finch and Selena reconnect and realize how much they have in common, and they fall in love. Kara becomes intoxicated; Jim drives her home, and she tries to seduce him. They are discovered by John, who mistakes Kara for Michelle and dismisses it. Oz, Finch, and Stifler help Jim return Kara to her parents' home, but A.J. spots them. Kevin wakes up hungover next to Vicky and assumes they had sex.
The next day, Stifler tries to throw a party like in high school, but finds everyone else has outgrown this. Jim and Michelle attend, intending to recreate their prom night. They bring Noah along to help him out of his depression. Noah becomes intoxicated and encounters Stifler's mother Jeanine (Jennifer Coolidge) for the first time. Kevin confronts Vicky about the night before, but she insists there was no sex and is upset that he would assume such a thing. Mia takes Ecstasy, and Ron humiliates Oz by showing a DVD of his failure as a contestant on Celebrity Dance-Off. Heather comforts Oz, and they attempt to rekindle their relationship. They are interrupted by Mia, who starts a fight with Heather. Jim and Michelle decide to role-play, but Kara tries to seduce him again. A.J. misunderstands and jealously interrupts them. The adults and the teens erupt in a brawl on the front lawn, which is disrupted by police officers. They arrest Finch for stealing a motorcycle. Stifler finds Finch's arrest amusing while the others sympathize with Finch. Fed up with Stifler's rudeness, the guys tell him off. Stifler responds that they never contact him anymore and they didn't tell him they were coming to town. The others admit that they did not want him to ruin things like he always does. Hurt, Stifler ends the party.
Mia leaves Oz, Stifler decides to skip the reunion, and Michelle goes to her grandmother's. When Jim tells his father about his disappointing sex life, Noah advises them to make time for each other. At the reunion, Finch admits that he is an assistant manager at Staples and stole the motorcycle from his boss when he did not receive a raise that was promised. The boys apologize to Stifler at his place of work, and insist that he is their friend; without him, high school would not have been any fun. Stifler is emboldened by this and quits his job - but not before standing up to his antagonistic boss - and attends the reunion. Kevin reconciles with Vicky, but she meets a new guy at the reunion. Finch makes amends with Selena for lying, and they have sex in the bathroom which promises to lead to an ongoing relationship. Oz reunites with Heather, and Jim reconciles with Michelle. Stifler is asked to be a party planner for a wedding for his former lacrosse teammates. He also meets Finch's mother Rachel (Rebecca De Mornay) who proceeds to have sex with him on the lacrosse field. John is reunited with his estranged buddy, Justin (Justin Isfeld) and they watch Stifler having sex with Finch's mom while chanting "MILF".
The next morning, Jim and Kara apologize to each other for their behavior. Oz plans to stay in town with Heather, Finch plans a trip with Selena to Europe, Stifler drops subtle hints about sleeping with Rachel but no one catches on. Jim proposes a pact for them to reunite once a year. They all agree and make a toast as the franchise's theme song ("Laid") plays. In a post-credits scene, Noah Levenstein receives sexual gratification from Stifler's Mom at a movie theater.
It was reported in October 2008 that Universal Pictures was planning to produce a third theatrically released sequel to the first film. In April 2010, the film entered pre-production, with Jon Hurwitz and Hayden Schlossberg signing on to write and direct with plans of reuniting the whole cast of the primary series.
In March 2011, it was announced that Jason Biggs, Seann William Scott and Eugene Levy had signed on to reprise their roles. Biggs and Scott were granted executive producer credits and also helped convince the other previous cast members to return. In April 2011, Alyson Hannigan, Chris Klein and Mena Suvari signed on. The following month, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Tara Reid, Eddie Kaye Thomas, Shannon Elizabeth, and Jennifer Coolidge signed on. In June and July 2011, John Cho and Natasha Lyonne were the last returning cast to sign on.
On May 18, 2011, a casting call went out for the character "Kara", a role that involved "upper frontal nudity". Ali Cobrin was cast in the role. National Football League wide receiver Chad Ochocinco has a cameo along with other wide receiver Terrell Owens.
Jason Biggs and Sean William Scott each received a reported $5 million plus a percentage of the profits for their performances. Alyson Hannigan and Eugene Levy were said to have been paid $3 million each, with the rest of the cast receiving payments within the $500,000 to $700,000 range, except Tara Reid who was paid $250,000.
On a budget of $50 million, principal photography took place from early June to August 2011 in metro Atlanta, Georgia. In late June, filming took place at Conyers, Monroe and Woodruff Park. Production filmed at Newton High School in Covington from July 11 to July 15. Scenes were filmed at the school's gym for a reunion prom set, football field, commons area and hallways; which included 200 extras. Under the deal the production company paid $10,000 to the Newton County School System for using the school.
During the last week of July, production moved to Cumming to film at Mary Alice Park on Lake Lanier and included about 100 extras. Moore said the beach at the lake looks similar to a Lake Michigan setting, which is the state in which the film is set. The production company paid $23,000 to have full access to the property for a week. Suvari finished filming her scenes on August 4.
American Reunion opened in North America on April 6, 2012 in 3,192 theaters for a weekend total of $21,514,080, putting it at number 2 at the box office behind The Hunger Games. On its second week of release it dropped to number 5 at the box office with a weekend total of $10,473,810.
The film earned $56,758,835 in North America and $177,978,063 internationally, for a worldwide total of $234,736,898.
The DVD and Blu-ray discs were released on July 15, 2012. The DVD was also released in a box set called American Pie Quadrilogy. The rated R version was available on iTunes a few days ahead of time as an "Early Digital Release". It was released on the 10th of September 2012 in the United Kingdom.
The film received mixed reviews from critics. Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 43&#160;percent based on 198 reviews, with the consensus being "It'll provide sweetly nostalgic comfort food for fans of the franchise, but American Reunion fails to do anything truly new or interesting -- or even very funny -- with the characters." 
According to Roger Ebert:
The charm of "American Pie" was the relative youth and naivete of the characters. It was all happening for the first time, and they had the single-minded obsession with sex typical of many teenagers. "American Reunion" has a sense of deja vu, but it still delivers a lot of nice laughs. Most of them for me came thanks to Stifler. . . If you liked the earlier films, I suppose you gotta see this one. Otherwise, I dunno.
The Village Voice concludes its review with the following:
After some strained "Remember the time . . ." callbacks to 13-year-old gags, American Reunion gets comfortable and funny, as Hurwitz and Schlossberg hit familiar marks from unexpected angles, while the ensemble interplay is "routine" in the best sense of the word. Taken altogether, the Pie movies offer a cohesive worldview, showing each of life's stages as the setting for fresh-yet-familiar catastrophes, relieved by a belief in sex, however ridiculous it might look, as a restorative force. The recipe is so durable and the sustained character work so second-skin by now, one can imagine the Pie films keeping with the dramatis personae through middle age and into the problems of geriatric love, a raunch-comic version of Britain's documentary Up series. American Midlife Crisis? American Retirement? American Funeral? Let's go!
Peter Travers of Rolling Stone gave American Reunion a positive review of two and half stars out of four saying, "American Reunion reminds us what we liked about the original: the way the movie sweetened its raunch to build a rooting interest in these characters."

A fifth theatrical film, under the working title American Pie 5 was announced on August 4, 2012, with Jon Hurwitz and Hayden Schlossberg returning as directors and screenwriters.
The American Pie series comes full circle as the characters from the 1999 comedy classic return to East Great Falls for their ten-year high-school reunion and experience a weekend they will never forget. While some couples, like Jim (Jason Biggs) and Michelle (Alyson Hannigan), got serious and tied the knot, others, like Oz (Chris Klein) and Heather (Mena Suvari), went their separate ways. Meanwhile, Finch (Eddie Kaye Thomas) still looks back with lust at that perfect evening he spent with Stifler's mom. Seann William Scott, Tara Reid, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Shannon Elizabeth, Eugene Levy, and Natasha Lyonne co-star. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All American Reunion Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 227&nbsp;mins
