Men in Black 3 (stylized as MIB3 and alternatively spelled Men in Black III) is a 2012 American 3D science fiction comedy film. It was released on May 25, 2012 and stars Will Smith, Tommy Lee Jones and Josh Brolin. Principal photography began in New York City on November 16, 2010, taking place ten years after its predecessor Men in Black II and fifteen years after the release of the original Men in Black. Barry Sonnenfeld and Steven Spielberg returned as director and executive producer respectively. It is the third installment in the Men in Black film series based on Lowell Cunningham's The Men in Black comic book series.
Men in Black 3 received generally positive reviews from critics and became a box office success with a worldwide gross of over $624&#160;million. It is also the highest grossing film in the series. Buoyed by the film's success, a fourth film has been confirmed.
Boris the Animal (Jemaine Clement), the last of the Boglodite race, escapes with help from his girlfriend Lily, from a prison on the Moon. He returns to Earth to exact vengeance on Agent K (Tommy Lee Jones), the agent responsible for his capture and the loss of his left arm. Agent K and his partner Agent J (Will Smith) are confronted by Boris, who withdraws but warns K that he is "already dead". Sensing a personal connection between K and Boris, J asks his partner about the alien criminal, but is turned aside. At MIB headquarters, J searches for information about the two, and learns that K is responsible for the deployment of the ArcNet, a defense system that protected Earth from invasion and ultimately led to the Boglodites' extinction.
That night, K vanishes from his apartment without a trace, and J finds himself in an alternate reality in which K was killed by Boris 40 years ago. The ArcNet is not in place, and a Boglodite invasion is imminent. J learns that Boris has traveled back in time to 1969, to help his past self kill K and prevent the ArcNet's deployment. J travels back in time to July 15, 1969, one day before K's death, in order to save his partner. He soon meets the 1969 version of Agent K (Josh Brolin), who initially mistrusts J and attempts to neuralyze him until J tells him the truth. The two follow a series of clues to an alien named Griffin (Michael Stuhlbarg), who has the ability to see multiple possible futures, at Andy Warhol's studio. Boris attacks, separating J and K from Griffin, but they rendezvous at Shea Stadium. Griffin attempts to give the two agents the ArcNet, in the form of a small disc-shaped device, but is kidnapped by Boris. J and K give pursuit on high-powered monocycles and manage to recover Griffin and the ArcNet, though Boris escapes.
J, K, and Griffin travel to Cape Canaveral, Florida, where the Apollo 11 rocket is preparing to lift off and land the first humans on the Moon. J and K race to attach the ArcNet to the rocket's tip, from which it can automatically deploy once in space. However, they are stopped by the local military police, commanded by an initially disbelieving colonel. Griffin uses his abilities to persuade the colonel to take them up to the rocket, though Griffin chooses to remain behind, as he says he is "no longer needed". Both versions of Boris attack the two agents at the top of the rocket's support structure. J is ultimately able to defeat future Boris using the time travel technology; he is knocked off the structure. K shoots off the left arm of the past version of Boris, and he too falls off the structure. K places the ArcNet and he and J escape from the rocket before it launches. Future Boris is incinerated by the rocket's exhaust. When the Apollo 11 lifts off in space the ArcNet detaches and activates successfully.
Past Boris ambushes K and the colonel, killing the colonel, and is then killed by K. A young child named James approaches the scene looking for his father, the colonel. Both K, who neuralyzes and comforts the child, and J, who is hiding nearby, realize that J was the child. J also realizes that K was his surrogate father, and that contrary to his beliefs when growing up, his real father died a hero. J returns to the present day, where K is still alive, and joins him at a diner, subtly thanking the older agent for all that he has done for him. A nearby Griffin assures himself that all is well.
Uncredited cameos by Lady Gaga and Tim Burton appearing on the TV monitors at MIB HQ, Will Arnett as Agent AA and Rip Torn as a Large-Headed Alien at Agent Zed's funeral.
The film's premise was first proposed to director Barry Sonnenfeld by Will Smith during the filming of Men in Black II in 2002, with Smith suggesting that his character, Agent J, travel back in time to save his partner, Agent K, while at the same time exploring Agent K's backstory. Sonnenfeld said the idea "turned out to be a very long process of development, mainly because of the knotting  issues of time travel...", It was reported that Smith and executives were leery about bringing back Barry Sonnenfeld because of conflicts on the set of Men in Black II. In a lawsuit filed against his former agents over commissions, Sonnenfeld alleged that Sony considered other directors for Men in Black 3. Sonnenfeld ultimately convinced all involved that he had a strong vision for the film.
The film was first announced on April 1, 2009, by Sony Pictures Entertainment president Rory Bruer during a Sony ShoWest presentation. By October 2009, Etan Cohen had been hired to write the screenplay. Sonnenfeld read the script and started working on it in January 2010. As of March 2010, Will Smith remained undecided whether to join this film or another, The City That Sailed. Sonnenfeld in May 2010 confirmed the return of the protagonists played by Tommy Lee Jones and Smith. Both had expressed interest in 2008 in reprising their roles. Other staff includes Walter F. Parkes and Laurie MacDonald as producers, with Steven Spielberg as executive producer; all were producers of the two previous films.
In June 2010, writer Davids Aumeisters was hired to rewrite the Cohen script. A third writer, Jeff Nathanson, was hired in November 2010 to rewrite the time-travel segment of the script in which the story takes place in 1969. Nathanson and Koepp, along with producer Spielberg, had previously worked together on the 2008 film Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull.
Principal photography began on November 16, 2010, even though, "We knew starting the movie that we didn't have a finished second or third act," director Sonnenfeld said in 2012. "Was it responsible? The answer is, if this movie does as well as I think it will, it was genius. If it's a total failure, then it was a really stupid idea." It was originally slated to commence on October 18, 2010, and continue until May 2011, in New York City, with shooting starting in 2010 partly in order to take advantage of a New York tax break in which the state rebates 30&#160;percent of production costs incurred there. Filming was split into two parts, the first taking place from November until about Christmas 2010; the filmmakers announced shooting would begin again in mid-February, but it was delayed until April. Sonnenfeld initially stated he would be shooting in 3D, but later decided to film in 2D and convert to 3D during post-production.
Set photos for the film appeared online November 17, 2010, showing Smith, Jones, Emma Thompson, and Nicole Scherzinger on set. Shooting was scheduled to resume from March through June 2011. Filming was done in April 2011 in the Morris Park section of The Bronx. Parts of Coney Island, in Brooklyn, had parking and filming permits posted for April 24 and May 2–4, 2011, production dates of what the permits titled MIB3. Shooting also took place in Manhattan's SoHo neighborhood.
For the film, the Ford Taurus SHO was selected as the MIB's official car, replacing the Ford LTD Crown Victoria and Mercedes-Benz E-Class from the first two films. For the 1969 scenes, a 1964 Ford Galaxie was used as the MIB's official car.
This is the first time Frank the Pug was absent in a Men in Black movie, as well as Chief Zed, Jack Jeebs, and Newton the Attendant. However, Zed is written in the story as having died and immortalized at MIB Headquarters, and a portrait of Frank can also be seen in J's apartment. An advertisement for Frank the talking dog can be seen as Agent J enters Coney Island during his travel in 1969.
Under distribution by Columbia Pictures, the film was released on May 25, 2012 in theaters. The film is rated PG-13 by MPAA for "sci-fi action violence and brief suggestive content". The film is rated PG by the British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) for "mild language, innuendo and fantasy violence". The film is rated M by Australian Classification Board for "science fiction violence".
The film was released on DVD, Blu-Ray, and Blu-Ray 3D on November 30, 2012, and as part of the Men in Black Trilogy Limited Edition Giftset with Worm Figurine on Blu-Ray.
Activision has released MIB: Alien Crisis on May 22, 2012 for Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Nintendo Wii. It features a never before seen MIB agent instead of Agent J or Agent K.
Gameloft also developed a mobile phone video game based on the film released on May 17, 2012, for iOS and Android.
The soundtrack for the film was composed by Danny Elfman and was released on May 29, 2012, four days after the film's release.
"Back in Time" by rapper Pitbull was originally released as the first single from the soundtrack on March 26, 2012. It is the first lead single for a Men in Black soundtrack not performed by Will Smith. The song plays during the end credits but is not featured on the soundtrack album.
All music composed by Danny Elfman.
Men in Black 3 received generally positive reviews from critics. The film currently holds a 70% "Fresh" approval rating on the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes with an average rating of 6.1/10, based on an aggregation of 225 reviews. The consensus states: "It isn't exactly a persuasive argument for the continuation of the franchise — but Men in Black III is better than its predecessor and manages to exceed expectations, largely due to Josh Brolin's impressive performance." It has a score of 58 on Metacritic based on 38 reviews, indicating "mixed or average reviews".
Roger Ebert gave the film 3 out of 4 stars, in particular praising Josh Brolin's role as the young Agent K, which he cites as an excellent example of good casting. Ebert also praised the "ingenious plot, bizarre monsters, audacious cliff-hanging" and the "virtuoso final sequence". Richard Roeper gave it 3.5 out of 5 stars while saying, "It's that rare threequel that doesn't suck. Great special effects, surprising amount of heart." A. O. Scott of the New York Times also gave it 3.5 out of 5 stars and commented, ""Men in Black 3" arrives in the multiplexes of the world with no particular agenda. Which may be part of the reason that it turns out to be so much fun." Lisa Schwarzbaum of Entertainment Weekly noted, "Sonnenfeld and Cohen move their baby along with an integrity and gait that ought to serve as a blueprint for other filmmakers faced with the particular challenges of reviving big-ticket and time-dated hunks of pop culture." Rafer Guzman of Newsday wrote, "The franchise is no longer the zenith of blockbusterism, and the gooey effects from Hollywood veteran Rick Baker look overly familiar, but "Men in Black 3" remains an amiable comedy with some fondly familiar faces."
Director Paul Thomas Anderson praised the film saying, "It was  great. ... The time-travel stuff  cry my eyes out. I'm a sucker for that stuff."
Conversely, Rene Rodriguez of The Miami Herald gave it 1 out of 4 stars and stated, "Men in Black 3 is so dull and empty, it's the first movie that has ever made me think "Thank God this is in 3D."
MIB 3 has earned $179,020,854 in North America, as of September 9, 2012, and $445,005,922 in other countries, as of August 19, 2012, for a worldwide total of $624,026,776. It had a worldwide opening weekend of $189.9&#160;million. It made the biggest worldwide IMAX Memorial-Day weekend ($12.7&#160;million from 474 theaters), surpassing the previous record of Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides.
In North America, MIB 3 earned $1.55&#160;million during its midnight run from 2,233 locations. On its opening day, the film debuted at the top of the box office and grossed $17.7&#160;million (including midnight grosses). This was slightly lower than the opening day grosses of its predecessors. During its three-day opening weekend, it topped the box office with $54.6&#160;million, which was higher than the opening weekends of the two previous films. The movie then earned an additional $14.7&#160;million on Memorial Day, bringing its four-day weekend total to $69.3&#160;million. The opening weekend audience was 54&#160;percent male and 56&#160;percent over the age of 25. The film received a B+ CinemaScore. It remained in first place at the North American box office for one week.
Outside North America, MIB 3 is the highest-grossing film of the franchise and the tenth highest-grossing 2012 film. It made $135.3&#160;million on its opening weekend from 85 territories. Its highest-grossing openings were recorded in China ($21.7&#160;million), and Russia and the CIS ($16.9&#160;million). It was in first place at the box office outside North America for two consecutive weekends.
Both Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones have said that they would "consider" appearing in a Men in Black 4. Jones said it would be "easy to pick up where we left off. We know what we are doing, we know how to do it. It's just a hell of a lot of fun." In July 2012, Columbia chief executive Doug Belgrad said: "We're very pleased with the financial performance of Men in Black 3, and we believe it is an ongoing franchise. We're going to do , but we don't have clarity yet on how it should be done." Barry Sonnenfeld said: "Will's kind of really smart, but as I said, kind of really annoying, too much energy. When he would get too rambunctious, I would tell him save that for Men in Black 4, Will is out and  Jaden Smith is in … if we continue on this path, it won't be released until 2032 but it will be damn good." Will Smith said that: "Jaden is already 13 years old, so he's at that mythological boys age, you know – it's time for his bro-mitzvah. So he's right at that place ... He's ready to test me so he can't come anywhere near my movies right now!"
The Men in Black are back, and this time Agent J (Will Smith) must take a trip into the past in order to save both the future and his taciturn partner Agent K (Tommy Lee Jones) in the third installment of the hit sci-fi comedy series. After 15 years of working with aliens from all across the cosmos, Agent J is sure he's seen it all. But just when he's getting the hang of the game, he learns that history has inexplicably been rewritten. In this new timeline of events, Agent K has been dead for 40 years, and Earth will soon come under attack from an extraterrestrial force with the power to claim the entire planet. Now, in order to set the past straight and head off an invasion of epic proportions, Agent J must travel back to the year 1969, when Young Agent K (Josh Brolin) was just a fresh new face on the force. But Agent J only has 24 hours to find the source of the coming catastrophe and discern how his longtime partner ties into the situation -- should he fail he'll be stuck in the past forever. Jemaine Clement, Alice Eve, and Emma Thompson co-star. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Men in Black 3 Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 106&nbsp;mins
