So Undercover is a 2012 American action-comedy film directed by Tom Vaughan and written by Allan Loeb and Steven Pearl. Starring Miley Cyrus, Jeremy Piven, and Mike O'Malley, the film was released for the first time in the United Arab Emirates on December 6, 2012 and released direct-to-video in the United States on February 5, 2013. The film has been released in theatres of only 9 countries worldwide.
In 2010, it was announced that Miley Cyrus would portray Molly Morris, Mike O'Malley would portray Molly's father, Jeremy Piven would portray Armon, Kelly Osbourne would portray Becky, Josh Bowman would portray Nicholas, Eloise Mumford, Lauren McKnight, and Matthew Settle, among others were announced.
Principal photography began in December 13, 2010 in New Orleans, Louisiana and at Tulane University. The filming finished in January 2011. On August 15, 2011, new scenes were filmed at University of California in Los Angeles and finished days after. Filming was supposed to be held in Sydney, Australia, but this was canceled for undisclosed reasons.
The film was shot in late 2010 and ended early 2011. On March 2011, Exclusive Media Group, the film's studio announced that The Weinstein Company acquired the U.S. distribution rights for the film, and saying that "the film will be released in October 2011 when schools are back in session." However, the film didn't get released in October 2011. In October 2012, the U.K. theatrical trailer was released, saying that the film will release in the United Kingdom on December 7, 2012. Later, distributor Millennium Films announced they acquired the U.S. distribution rights for the film, and saying that the film will have a direct-to-video release in the United States on February 5, 2013. The film has been released in theatres of 9 countries worldwide. In December 2012, was released in 4 European countries and 1 Asiatic, and January 2013, 2 european and 2 asiatic. In total 6 european and 3 asiatic.
The film has received largely negative reviews. Review aggregate Rotten Tomatoes reports that 7% of critics have given the film a positive review based on 15 reviews with a rating average of 3.8/10. Tim Evans from Sky Movies wrote that "Its target audience will lap it up...but the rest of us will be searching for deep cover."
"So Undercover" was released on February 5 in the U.S. only on DVD.
A tomboy private investigator goes undercover as a sorority girl to protect a coed whose father is set to testify against a dangerous mobster in this comedy starring Miley Cyrus. Molly (Cyrus) is a teenage private eye who gets the evidence most sleuths can't. But when the FBI asks her to pose as a rich sorority girl, she's not sure she'll be able to convincingly shed her gruff exterior. With a little make-up and a new wardrobe, however, Molly fits right in on campus. Before long she's best friends with the girl who has information that could bring down the mob. Meanwhile, the obnoxious antics of Molly's hopelessly spoiled sorority "sisters" repeatedly test both her patience, and willingness to maintain her cover. Jeremy Piven and Kelly Osbourne co-star. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All So Undercover Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 94&nbsp;mins
