Colombiana is a 2011 French-American action film co-written (with Robert Mark Kamen) and produced by Luc Besson and directed by Olivier Megaton. The film stars Zoe Saldana in the lead role with supporting roles done by Michael Vartan, Cliff Curtis, Lennie James, Callum Blue, and Jordi Mollà.
In 1992 little Cataleya (Amandla Stenberg) lives with her parents in Bogota, Colombia. Her father Fabio Restrepo (Jesse Borrego) is in possession of key information on drug lord Don Luis Sandoval (Beto Benites). When Don Luis learns about this, he sends his henchman Marco (Jordi Mollà) for Fabio. Marco kills Cataleya's parents but she can escape. She makes it to the U.S. Embassy and is sent to her uncle Emilio (Cliff Curtis) in 
Fifteen years later Cataleya (Zoe Saldana) has become an accomplished assassin. Her uncle serves as her broker, providing her with contracts. Eventually she is assigned to kill the gangster Genarro Rizzo (Affif Ben Badra) who is currently in police custody. Following through on an elaborate plan she gets herself arrested and transferred to the same prison. The police takes her for a student who just drank too much. She can manage to leave her cell and to kill Rizzo. Then she returns to her cell and the next morning she is released unsuspected.
As always she has left her signature, the Cattleya flower. Thus FBI Special Agent James Ross (Lennie James) can link this case to more than twenty other cases. As a last resort FBI decides to inform the public about Cataleya's calling card. Cataleya's archenemy Don Luis, meanwhile subject to a US-American witness protection programme, concludes correctly that Fabio's daughter is in the USA too and orders his people to find her. Emilio is devastated when learns she has a signature because she has hereby put her relatives in grave danger. She understands she must tell them goodbye.
Cataleya's lover Danny Delaney (Michael Vartan) doesn't even know her real name. Admiring her beauty he takes a picture of her while she sleeps. He shows it then to his best friend Ryan (Billy Slaughter) who forwards it his sister Shari (Nikea Gamby-Turner). From there it happens to get to Special Agent James Ross who realises that this is the alleged student who was in the same prison as Genarro Rizzo at the very night when he got killed.
Now the FBI traces her and supported by a SWAT team they try to fetch her. She can scarcely escape but in the meantime Don Luis has murdered her uncle Emilio and his family. Cataleya ambushes Ross in his home and pumps information on Don Luis from him. Little later she knows her archenemy's whereabouts in New Orleans. Using heavy weaponry she manages to get onto his premises. She eliminates his guards and defeats her father's murder Marco in a fierce fight. Finally she takes revenge on Don Luis.
When her lover Danny is questioned by the FBI, he receives her phone call. She comes clean with him before she boards a bus headed for an unknown destination.
Filming began around 20 August 2010 in locations including Chicago, New Orleans, Mexico, and France. The film was produced by Luc Besson's EuropaCorp company and the script was written by Besson and Robert Mark Kamen.
Reception was mostly mixed to negative reviews. The film itself was not screened to most critics in advance of its release until the day before its release, preventing opening day print reviews, but nevertheless, some critics reviewed the film. Movie review aggregate website Rotten Tomatoes labeled Colombiana with a 27% rating based on 89 reviews with the consensus of critics nationwide saying that "Zoe Saldana has the chops but she's taken out by erratic and sloppy filmmaking." Christy Lemire of The Associated Press reviewed Colombiana, writing that “The director of La Femme Nikita and The Fifth Element serves as co-writer and producer here, but this is very much a spin-off of his brand, a continuation of the kind of stereotype- and gravity-defying characters he’s made his name on. Colombiana feels more hammy and muscular, though – but knowingly so, and that’s what makes it solid, late-summer escapist fun. Betsy Sharkey of the Los Angeles Times, however, wrote: “This B-movie blast of bloody blam blam is the latest chapter in the Luc Besson book of badly bruised lovelies who are better not crossed. What he began in 1990 with Nikita followed with Léon in ’94 and ’97's The Fifth Element, (the last written with Robert Mark Kamen, who co-wrote Colombiana with Besson), he refines in Colombiana.” Claudia Puig of USA Today felt a little different, writing: “This is a showy flower of an action film. Saldana doesn’t get much of a chance to emote, but her action skills blossom.” Jordan Mintzer of the Hollywood Reporter, nevertheless, was more tolerant of the film, writing that "There are guilty pleasures to be had in this frenzied B starring Zoe Saldana, who gives an acrobatic performance that makes the overcooked material watchable."
A nonprofit group called PorColombia criticized the film, saying that it stereotyped Colombia in a negative way. Carlos Macias, president of PorColombia, claimed that the film is proof of a "total lack of creativity" of "Hollywood". When asked about the situation in an interview, Saldaña said "Shame on them? I don't know, I wish I knew how to address stupid unintelligent comments but I don't, I'm not a stupid person." David Martin-Jones named and analyzed in his review of Senses of Cinema a number of shortcomings. Even so he stated finally that in spite of all its resemblances to Hollywood blockbusters this film provided in comparison at least "a different perspective" concerning immigration and international wealth inequality.
Colombiana debuted in second place in its first week at the U.S. box office with $10,408,176 behind The Help. It stayed No. 2 until 31 August 2011, when it went down to No. 3 behind The Help and The Debt. The film has made $36,665,854 in United States and Canada, and $24,300,000 in foreign countries, bringing its total to $60,965,854 worldwide.
