The Raid: Redemption (Indonesian: Serbuan Maut, meaning "The Deadly Raid"; also known as just The Raid) is a 2011 Indonesian martial arts action film written and directed by Gareth Evans and starring Iko Uwais. This is the second collaboration of Evans and Uwais after their first action film, Merantau released in 2009. Both films showcase the traditional Indonesian martial art pencak silat. The fight choreographers of The Raid are Iko Uwais and Yayan Ruhian who also worked on Merantau. The U.S. release of the film features music by Mike Shinoda and Joseph Trapanese.
After its world premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF), The Raid received positive reviews from critics. The name of the film was changed to The Raid: Redemption in the United States because the distibutor company Sony Pictures Classics could not secure the rights to the title; this also allowed Evans to plan out future titles in the series. It was released in the United States on DVD and Blu-ray on August 14, 2012.
Early in the morning, Rama, an expectant father and rookie officer, and a 20-man Detachment 88 special police squad led by Sergeant Jaka and Lieutenant Wahyu, arrive at an apartment block in Jakarta's slums undetected. It is run by Tama Riyadi, a crime lord, who is the target of the task force. While detaining various tenants of the apartment, the team eventually detains a man who is delivering medicine to his sick wife in room 726. However, before the team enters the apartment, he escapes. The team infiltrates the apartment block floor by floor until they reach the sixth floor. However, the team is seen by a young lookout, who raises the alarm before he is shot and killed.
Tama calls in reinforcements, who systematically take out a majority of the police and regain control of most of the building. Tama turns off the power to the building's central stairwell. He announces over the building's PA system that the police are trapped on the sixth floor and he will grant free permanent residence to those who kill the intruders. In the darkness, the team is soon ambushed by shooters from above, as well as others who flank them from behind. During the battle, Jaka learns from Wahyu that the mission isn't sanctioned by the force, meaning nobody knows their location and no backup or reinforcements will arrive. The team backs into an empty apartment from the stairwell, where Bowo is shot and injured. They narrowly escape after Rama improvises an explosion that kills the pursuing tenants. With more antagonists approaching, the team is forced to split into two groups covertly; Jaka, Wahyu, and Dagu retreat to the fifth floor, while Rama and Bowo ascend to the seventh.
Rama and Bowo make their way to the apartment of the man with the sick wife, who reluctantly agrees to hide them despite his wife's pleas not to get involved. They hide in a secret passage behind a wall. A gang arrives and inspects the man's apartment, but they find no one, and leave. After removing the bullet stuck in Bowo, Rama leaves him in the care of the couple as he goes out in search of the others. Rama is eventually captured by Andi, Tama's right hand man. At the same time, Jaka and his group are found by Mad Dog, Tama's ruthless henchman. Wahyu makes his escape, but Jaka orders Dagu to follow him. Armed with only a knife, Jaka is confronted by Mad Dog, who holds him at gunpoint and leads him into an apartment unit. There, he disarms and challenges Jaka to a fight with no weapons. After a brutal fight, Jaka is subdued and Mad Dog kills him. Meanwhile at Andi's apartment, it is revealed that he is Rama's estranged brother, and that Rama's personal hidden objective throughout the mission was to find him and bring him home. Andi is uninterested in leaving, but he advises Rama to wait briefly until it is safe to escape the area. Andi meets up with Mad Dog, who drags Jaka's body to Tama. Tama learns of Andi's betrayal from the closed-circuit camera footage of Andi pulling Rama to safety in his apartment. Tama stabs Andi in the hand before turning him over to Mad Dog.
Rama regroups with Wahyu and Dagu, who go on to fight Tama's henchmen in a narcotics lab, and then to the 15th floor where Tama is located. On the way up, Rama finds a room where Andi is being beaten by Mad Dog. As Rama enters, Mad Dog allows him to free Andi and prepares to fight them both. Rama and Andi team up against Mad Dog, and after sustaining more brutal beatings, kill him. Meanwhile, Wahyu and Dagu confront Tama, but Wahyu shoots and kills Dagu. Wahyu is convinced that holding Tama hostage will allow him to escape. Rama and Andi run into Wahyu and Tama, but Wahyu fires at them. While Wahyu keeps the two at bay, Tama gloats that his actions are futile because of extensive corruption on the police force. After realizing the depth of the corruption and the inevitability of his own murder, Wahyu shoots Tama in the head. He then attempts to shoot himself, but fails because he has run out of bullets. Andi gives Rama a list of corrupt officers that Tama had kept as insurance. Rama again asks Andi to come home, but he refuses, due to his acclimation to his lifestyle. Andi claims that he will always be able to protect Rama in his role as a criminal boss, but that Rama cannot do the same for him. He then orders the guards at the gate to allow the officers to leave and returns to the apartment, while Rama leaves with Bowo and a detained Wahyu.
Following Merantau, Gareth Evans and his producers began work on a silat movie project called Berandal (Indonesian for "thugs"), a large scale prison gang movie intended to star not only Merantau actors Iko Uwais and Yayan Ruhian but also an additional pair of international fight stars. A teaser trailer was shot, but the project proved more complex and time consuming than anticipated. After a year and a half, Evans and the producers found themselves with insufficient funds to produce Berandal, so they changed to a simpler but different story with a smaller budget. They called the project Serbuan Maut (The Raid). Producer Ario Sagantoro considers the film to be lighter than Merantau. Gareth Evans also considers it to be "a lot more streamlined," stating that "Merantau is more of a drama" while The Raid is more of a "survival horror film."
Pre-production took about four months, which include finalization of the script (which included translation of the original English-language script into Indonesian) and the work on the choreography for fighting sequence which was designed by Iko Uwais and Yayan Ruhian. The actors that make up the key members of the police squad were sent to bootcamp military training with KOPASKA, where they learned how to use weapons, and how to perform strategic attack and defense techniques. Filming began in March 2011. The Raid was shot with a Panasonic AF100.
While the film was still in production, in May 2011, Sony Pictures Worldwide Acquisitions acquired the distribution rights of the film for the U.S. and tasked Mike Shinoda of Linkin Park and Joseph Trapanese to create a new score for U.S. market. The film premiered at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival with the original score from the Indonesian version which was composed by Aria Prayogi and Fajar Yuskemal, who also composed Evan's previous film, Merantau. The Raid made its debut in the U.S. with Trapanese and Shinoda's version at Sundance 2012.
On his blog, Shinoda stated that his score was over 50 minutes and almost all instrumental. After film production, he had room for two more songs, but did not want to sing or rap, so he posted pictures of two music artists. Deftones/††† frontman Chino Moreno guest performed for "RAZORS.OUT", which was leaked online on March 16, 2012. GBC performed on "SUICIDE MUSIC".
All songs written and composed by Mike Shinoda and Joseph Trapanese, except where noted.&#160;
Sony Pictures Worldwide Acquisitions acquired the distribution rights of the film for the U.S., and revised the music score and had the title changed to The Raid: Redemption. Distribution rights for other countries have also sold, including Alliance (Canada), Momentum (United Kingdom), Madman (Australia), SND (France), Kadokawa (Japan), Koch (Germany), HGC (China), and Calinos (Turkey). Deals have also been made with distributors from Russia, Scandinavia, Benelux, Iceland, Italy, Latin America, Korea and India during the film screening at the TIFF.
Reviews have been highly positive; based on 104 reviews collected by Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a 84% fresh rating, and an average score of 7.5/10. The website reported the critical consensus as "No frills and all thrills," and lauded the film as "inventive action film expertly paced and edited for maximum entertainment." Conversely, Roger Ebert gave the film a single star out of four; he criticized the lack of character depth, and noted that "the Welsh director, Gareth Evans, knows there's a fanboy audience for his formula, in which special effects amp up the mayhem in senseless carnage."
In its Sony Pictures Classics debut in the United States and Canada on March 23-25, 2012, The Raid: Redemption grossed $220,937 from 24 theaters for a location average of $15,781. For its widest opening release weekend in the United States and Canada on April 13-15, 2012, the film grossed $961,454 from 881 theaters, and ranked 11th overall. In the United Kingdom, the film grossed $660,910 on its opening weekend. In Indonesia, approximately 250,000 people watched the film in the first four days of release, and it was considered a great turnout for a country that only has about 660 theater screens nationwide. As of July 8, 2012, the film has grossed $4,105,123 in the United States and Canada. The film is approaching $15M in global box office.
A few months after Sony acquired the film's North American distribution rights, it was announced by The Hollywood Reporter that its subsidiary company, Screen Gems, is in negotiations to produce a Hollywood remake. The deal was sealed on November 2011 with writer-director Gareth Evans will serve as an executive producer on the remake. XYZ Films, executive producers on the original Indonesian version, will be producers on the American version. Screen Gems also wants the same choreographers from The Raid involved with the remake.
While developing The Raid in script form, Evans started to toy around with the idea of creating a link between it and the initial project; Berandal. It has been later confirmed that Berandal will serve as a sequel to The Raid. Evans has also stated his intention to make a trilogy.
Sony has pre-bought U.S., Latin American and Spanish rights to the sequel. Alliance/Momentum has pre-bought for the United Kingdom and Canada; Koch Media has acquired the film for German speaking territories; Korea Screen has pre-bought Korea; and HGC has pre-bought China. Deals for other major territories are also in negotiations.
Tentatively titled Berandal for the Indonesian market and as The Raid: Retaliation for U.S. market, the sequel will have a “significantly larger” budget than its predecessor, and its shooting schedule is to include approximately 100 days of physical production. The pre-production is expected to begin in September 2012 while the filming is expected in January 2013.
A comic book based on The Raid was released on May 21, 2012.
