About Cherry is a 2012 drama film and the directorial debut of Stephen Elliott. It is based on a script penned by Elliott and porn industry veteran, Lorelei Lee. It stars Ashley Hinshaw, James Franco, Heather Graham and Dev Patel. The project was filmed in San Francisco and premiered at the 2012 Berlin International Film Festival.
Angelina (Hinshaw) is an 18-year-old girl not far from graduating from high school. Her boyfriend (Weston) suggests that she take naked pictures of herself and sell them. She is initially hesitant, but eventually does the photo shoot and uses the money to run away to San Francisco with her best friend Andrew (Patel). At a strip club party in the city, Angelina meets a wealthy lawyer by the name of Francis (Franco), who offers to introduce her to a glamorous world of expensive dresses and lavish parties. Angelina also meets Margaret (Graham), a former porn star turned adult film director. Margaret offers Angelina, now using the porn name Cherry, direction in her entry into the San Francisco porn industry. Angelina makes several soft pornography films before deciding to do a hardcore film. After Angelina shoots the film, an angry Francis chastises her before getting them in a car accident. Angelina returns home to find Andrew watching one of her films. After an argument, she decides to leave and meets Margaret at a bar. They kiss before returning to Margaret's apartment. The final scene is of Angelina some time afterward, having moved in with Margaret and taken on a new job as a porn director.'
A pretty San Francisco teen clings to her innocence while embracing a career as an adult-film starlet in this gritty drama featuring James Franco, Lili Taylor, and Heather Graham. Enticed into posing nude by her depraved boyfriend (Jonny Weston), shy high-school student Angelica ( Ashley Hinshaw) falls into the world of fetish photography, which she begins to see as a means of escaping her dead-end life. Meanwhile, as she weighs her options and struggles to be a good role model for her impressionable younger sister, her shrewd mother (Taylor) and shady stepfather offer little solace. Under the guidance of a sensitive female porn director (Graham), Angelica stands a good chance of becoming a big star. But as the conflicted teen bares her soul to her understanding best friend (Dev Patel), she also finds herself falling under the spell of a drug-addicted lawyer (Franco) who may be her undoing. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 102&nbsp;mins
