Tyler James Williams
Let It Shine is a 2012 musical television film that premiered on Disney Channel. It features an ensemble cast of Tyler James Williams, Coco Jones, Trevor Jackson and Brandon Mychal Smith. The film follows a shy, talented rapper and musician who pens romantic hip-hop verses only to stand idly by as they're delivered to the girl of his dreams by a proxy, his best friend in a retelling of Cyrano de Bergerac. The film was directed by Paul Hoen and written by Eric Daniel and Don D. Scott. The Disney Channel Original Movie premiered on June 15, 2012, US and CAN and July 20, 2012 UK. The first look at it was seen during Disney's Whodunit Weekend on April 13, 2012.
The story unfolds in Atlanta, Georgia, as Cyrus DeBarg,who is a pastor's son, and his best friend Kris McDuffy reunite with their childhood friend, teenage singing sensation Roxanne "Roxie" Andrews, whose music label is sponsoring a songwriting contest at a teen club. Cyrus, a shy busboy and Youth Choir director who writes rap music under the name "Truth," crafts a heartfelt and contest-winning rhyme song called "Don't Run Away" about Roxie but Roxie ends up mistaking him for Kris due to him sending in a photo of both him and Kris. Knowing that Kris wants to be with Roxie, Cyrus stands by while Kris not only takes credit for the lyrics but ultimately begins to win Roxie's heart too. After seeing Kris take all the credit, Cyrus begins straying farther and farther away from Kris. Meanwhile, a conflict is beginning to form between Cyrus and his dad due to Cyrus's dad's opinion that rap is the Devil's music.
Cyrus and Roxie get to know each other and Roxie says she can talk to him better than she can talk to Kris. Eventually, Cyrus' father comes to accept and support him after reading his lyrics and he reveals he is "Truth" through a song called "Me and You ." However, after learning Cyrus is "Truth", Roxie is so angry she was played, that she slaps Cyrus and she tells him and Kris to stay out of her life. Cyrus then has a rap battle with arrogant rapper Lord of Da Bling. Cyrus wins after telling the whole audience the fact that Bling is not in fact rich, but a normal person, which he found out by seeing Bling work his day job as a taxi driver . Kris eventually tells Roxie that Cyrus is a great person and only pretended he wasn't "Truth" for Kris, and they didn't try to hurt Roxie; he also says Cyrus is real and that's who she needs to be with. Roxie then goes to church and hugs Cyrus and they sing "Let it Shine".
The movie's soundtrack features 13 original songs by acclaimed music producerssongwritersperformers Rock Mafia, Toby Gad, David Banner, Antonina Armato, Andy Dodd, In-Q, Adam Hicks, Tim James, Lindy Robbins, Dapo Torimiro, Thomas Sturges, Jon Vella and Adam Watts.
The movie was shot in Atlanta and Marietta, Georgia. The DVD is set to release on August 7, 2012.
The premiere of Let It Shine garnered 5.7 million viewers and is now currently the most watched Disney Channel Original Movie of 2012 and is now also currently the #1 movie of the year across kids 6–11, tweens and teens.
In its original airing, the movie was watched by 5.7 million people, the high cable rating of the day, and obtained an adult 18-49 rating of 0.9, second only to Family Guy. The Rap Battle Edition, which aired on June 30, was watched by 2.54 million people. In the UK, the film was watched by 545,000 people.
A young hip-hop hopeful from Atlanta, Georgia fights to keep his dreams from slipping though his fingers when his best friend takes the credit for all of his creativity, and the girl he loves starts to fall for the wrong guy in this contemporary take on the tale of Cyrano de Bergerac. Cyrus DeBarge (Tyler James Williams) is a talented young lyricist who should be up on the stage instead of bussing tables. But his father (Courtney B. Vance) fals to see the value in hip-hop, and without the confidence to face the crowd, Cyrus' talent will never truly shine. When Cyrus and his best friend Kris (Trevor Jackson) learn that their old friend Roxie (Coco Jones) is sponsoring a major songwriting contest, Cyrus dubs himself "Truth" and filters his feelings for Roxie into a rhyme that takes the top prize. But there's a catch; Kris has been credited as the lyricist, and to make matters worse, smitten Roxie is none the wiser. Later, as the girl he loves starts to slip away and Kris refuses to give up the charade, Cyrus realizes that the time has come to stand up, let the truth be known, and take his one shot at stardom. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Let It Shine Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 104&nbsp;mins
