Radio Rebel is a 2012 Disney Channel Original Movie based on a novel titled Shrinking Violet. The movie was directed by Peter Howitt, written by Erik Patterson & Jessica Scott, and stars Debby Ryan as Tara Adams.
Tara Adams is a shy seventeen-year old senior at Lincoln Bay High School who dreads speaking to anyone in the school hallways or getting called on in class. But in the privacy of her bedroom, she rocks out as a podcast DJ named "Radio Rebel." Her alter ego gives inspirational messages to her fellow high school students and in turn they become her protégées. Her stepfather, Rob (Martin Cummins), runs SLAM FM, Seattle’s hottest FM radio station. When he finds out that Tara is Radio Rebel while listening to one of her podcasts at the request of DJ Cami Q (Mercedes de la Zerda), he decides to let Tara fill in for the open DJ slot at SLAM FM.
Keeping her Radio Rebel alter ego a secret, Tara becomes an instant hit because her radio show encourages her classmates to be themselves. She has fun; on one occasion, she hosts a dance party during lunch at her high school where Principal Moreno (Nancy Robertson) has banned her students from listening to Radio Rebel's podcast. However, the principal cannot order DJ Cami Q to leave the campus, since she parked her car on public property (the street) and has the necessary permit.
Angrily, Principal Moreno decides to cancel the prom until Radio Rebel reveals her true self. Her fellow students become disillusioned with Radio Rebel and call in her radio show to say that she crushed their dreams. Scared that she disappointed her listeners, Tara and SLAM FM decide to throw the Lincoln Bay students a MORP (PROM spelled backwards). The students nominate and select Radio Rebel for MORP queen and, despite the fact that Principal Moreno will expel her, Tara goes onstage to accept the honor.
In order to protect Tara, her best friend Audrey shouts, "I'm Radio Rebel!" Tara's love interest Gavin follows suit and eventually all students continue shouting that they are Radio Rebel until Principal Moreno concedes defeat and storms off. Tara, brimming with confidence now that she has been accepted by the student body, gives her crown to Stacy. Previously anti-Radio Rebel, Stacy declares, "I'm Radio Rebel!” and Stacy finally gets her crown. The movie concludes with Tara dancing the night away with Gavin, both finally allowed to be themselves.
When Shrinking Violet was adapted into a movie, certain elements were altered, including the character Teresa being renamed Tara and her radio personality being changed from Sweet T to Radio Rebel.
The movie was directed by Peter Howitt and was shot in Canada, with principal photography taking place during the summer of 2011 in Vancouver. The scenes in the school, and some scenes at "SlamFM" were filmed at Meadowridge Independent School in Maple Ridge, British Columbia. The script was composed by Erik Patterson and Jessica Scott. Michael Jacobs, Robyn Snyder and MarVista CEO Fernando Szew executive produced the film with Kim Arnott and Oliver De Caigny. "We are confident that 'Radio Rebel' features the same elements that made our first production a huge success including a tight, fast-paced and comedic script and an all-around talented cast, plus several original songs that will be sure to delight teens across the globe," Szew said.
Debby Ryan recorded two songs to promote the film: a cover of The Go-Go's' "We Got the Beat" and a collaboration with Chase Ryan and Chad Hively called "We Ended Right".
The movie was accompanied by a week-long lineup called We Got the Beat Week consisting of new music videos and music-themed Disney Channel series and movies.
The Radio Rebel soundtrack album was released on February 21, 2012.
Radio Rebel currently has a rating of 6.2 out of 10 on IMDb. It also earned 4.3 million viewers on its premiere night.
Cafepress has released a line of Radio Rebel merchandise, including iPhone cases, tote bags, apparel, and wall hangings.
A renegade radio personality stirs controversy in the hallways of her high school in this original Disney Channel movie starring Debby Ryan. In the classroom, high school junior Tara Adams (Ryan) is as shy as they come, but give her a microphone and she transforms into Radio Rebel - an outspoken DJ who's a hit with the popular kids and the misfits alike. When the clique situation in her school starts to get out of hand, Radio Rebel takes to the airwaves as the voice of sanity. But not everyone likes what she has to say; the principal is determined to see that the pirate broadcaster is permanently silenced, but just can't seem to sniff out her true identity. Meanwhile, when Tara's bullying classmate Stacy sets her sights on their cute classmate Gavin, everyone's favorite radio personality realizes that unless she reveals her true identity, the boy she adores might slip through her fingers. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Radio Rebel Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 89&nbsp;mins
