The Devil's Rock is a 2011 New Zealand horror film directed by Paul Campion, written by Paul Finch, Paul Campion and Brett Ihaka and starring Craig Hall, Matthew Sunderland, Gina Varela and Karlos Drinkwater. It is set in the Channel Islands on the eve of D-Day and tells the story of two New Zealand commandos who discover a Nazi occult plot to unleash a demon to win World War II. The film combines elements of war films and supernatural horror films.
On 5 June 1944, commandos are sent to the Channel Islands on sabotage and distraction raids, to draw Hitler's attention away from Normandy. At night, two New Zealand soldiers, Captain Ben Grogan (Craig Hall) and Sergeant Joe Tane (Karlos Drinkwater) paddle in their Klepper canoe to Forau Island, landing on a beach covered in anti-personnel mines and tank traps. They leave the beach and head inland, walking through woods when they hear distant screaming and gunfire. They approach a German fortification and hear what they think is a man being tortured. They climb down into a large gun pit and place explosives on a large artillery gun, but are disturbed when a German soldier (Luke Hawker) runs out of a tunnel pleading for help. Grogan stabs the soldier in the back of the neck and kills him. They hear a woman screaming, and Grogan decides to investigate with Tane remaining outside. Tane, hearing a gunshot, enters the bunker to investigate. While looking for Grogan, he discovers a book of black magic, and distracted by its contents, is killed by an unseen assailant. Unharmed, Grogan discovers Tane's body and is knocked unconscious by the Nazi.
Grogan wakes and is briefly tortured by a Nazi, Colonel Meyer (Matthew Sunderland), who wants to know his mission. During the interrogation, a woman is heard screaming from another room. Grogan eventually escapes and chases Meyer into the tunnels, shooting and injuring him. Grogan follows the sound of the woman up to a room covered in occult symbols. He finds a chained woman (Gina Varela), who reveals herself to be his dead wife, Helena. Meyer enters the room and shoots Grogan in the leg, then shoots Helena in the head, apparently killing her. Grogan attacks Meyer, who explains the woman is a demon, summoned up from a book of black magic found on the island. Meyer proves this by offering her the leg of a dead German, and as she stops pretending to be dead, changes into her true demon form as she eats the leg.
After Grogan removes a bullet from his abdomen, Meyer passes out. Grogan searches him and discovers a page torn from the book of black magic in a small pouch worn as a necklace by the Nazi. Grogan keeps the page after replacing it for another from the book. Soon after Meyer recovers and explains the demon is a shapeshifter and a weapon the Germans plan to use against the Allies. He also explains that it is confined to the island because it cannot cross running water. However, they realize the demon poses a world threat, so they keep it confined. Meyer offers to give the book to Grogan if he will help Meyer escape from Germany. Meyer then persuades Grogan to help him perform a ritual to dispel the demon back to Hell. Meyer, believing he is protected with the incantation sheet from the book, betrays Grogan at the end of the ritual.
As Meyer reveals his true intent to use the demon for the Nazis, Grogan overpowers Meyer and throws him to the demon. She brutally kills Meyer while Grogan survives, protected by the incantation he has taken from Meyer. When she tries to convince him to take her with him as Nicole, he tells her that she could never replace the Nicole he knew, taking the opportunity to chain her up again. Although he is unable to complete the ritual alone, Grogan takes the book and leaves the demon behind, to prey on any Germans that come to investigate; he explains to the demon he intends to come back when the war is over to finish the ritual and to banish her forever. He leaves the key to the chain within reach as he leaves the demon in the bunker. He steps onto the beach, buries the photo of Nicole he kept with him, then looks up and sees planes flying overhead, dropping paratroopers. D-Day has begun.
One Nazi does fall prey to the demon (masquerading as a German-speaking woman) during the closing credits.
The film was produced by New Zealand producer Leanne Saunders and co-funded by the New Zealand Film Commission.
Although set in Europe, filming took place over 15 days in August 2010 in Wellington, New Zealand, on sets built at Island Bay Studio, on location at Breaker Bay, and at Wrights Hill Fortress, a semi-restored World War II hilltop fortification. Special makeup effects for the film were created by Weta Workshop.
The film contains references to real historical events and Campion has stated that he based the story on the German Occupation of the Channel Islands and the German fortifications. Guernsey's history of witchcraft and the occult includes the existence of the "Bad Books" (books of black magic) and copies can be found in two libraries in the Channel Islands.
When Grogan and Tane hear screaming from within the fortification, Grogan thinks it is other allied commandos who are being tortured: "You know what they did to Blondie's men in Bordeaux" - a reference to the torture of captured Royal Marines during Operation Frankton, under the command of Major Herbert 'Blondie' Hasler.
As Meyer ties Grogan's thumbs with a piece of wire to torture him, Meyer talks about the Allied "gangster commandos, who raided these very islands and killed innocent German prisoners with their hands tied behind their backs," which is a reference to Operation Basalt, a British Commando raid on Sark where a German prisoner was shot dead whilst his hands were tied, which in turn lead to Adolf Hitler issuing his Commando Order, upon which the torture scene in the film is based.
When Meyer is attempting to interrogate Grogan, he taunts Grogan's New Zealand background: "New Zealanders, a bunch of farmers driving around the deserts of North Africa, attacking by night and fleeing to hide like cowards", which is a reference to the New Zealand section of the Long Range Desert Group.
Meyer also taunts Grogan by insulting the Maoris of New Zealand, which he describes as "the descendents of cannibals and headhunters", which is a reference to a 1940's German radio propaganda broadcast.
Metrodome bought the UK rights in 2010 while the film was still in post production. The film was released theatrically and simultaneously on VOD on 8 July 2011, and on DVD on 11 July 2011.
The film was released on 21 screens cinemas New Zealand on 22 September 2011 and was released on DVD and Blu-ray in December 2011.
eOne entertainment bought the North American rights at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival.
The film was nominated for 3 awards at the 2012 Sorta Unofficial New Zealand Film Awards:, winning the Best Makeup Design Award.
A Kiwi commando comes face-to-face with a diabolical evil after following a woman's screams into a massive German bunker just hours before D-Day in this supernatural shocker from New Zealand. Pulled off course by powerful currents, Captain Ben Grogan and Sergeant Joseph Tane eventually manage to reach the Channel Islands, and embark on a clandestine mission to take out some heavy German artillery. Their explosives in place, the soldiers are caught off guard by a petrified German soldier beating a hasty retreat, and hear the desperate cries of a woman locked somewhere deep in the fortress. Determined to rescue the woman from a cruel fate at the hands of her Nazi captors, Captain Grogan races inside and stumbles into the aftermath of a grisly massacre. The only survivors are a secretive Nazi officer and a woman of otherworldly beauty. Now, on the eve of a defining battle, one New Zealand soldier will find out that evil really does walk the earth, and that it possesses power beyond human comprehension. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Devil's Rock Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 86&nbsp;mins
