Zombi 2 (also known as Zombie, Zombies, Zombie Island, Zombie Flesh-Eaters and Woodoo) is a 1979 zombie horror film directed by Lucio Fulci working from a screenplay by Elisa Briganti and Dardano Sacchetti. It is perhaps the best-known of Fulci's many genre films and made him a horror icon. Though the title suggests this is a sequel to Zombi (the Italian title of George A. Romero's Dawn of the Dead), the films are unrelated. When the film was released in 1979 it was scorned for its extremely bloody content, notably by the UK's Conservative government.
An apparently abandoned yacht drifts into New York Harbor. When the Harbor Patrol investigates, a huge decomposing man kills one of the officers by biting his neck. The remaining officer shoots the hulking man, a zombie, who topples into the sea. The body of the deceased officer is deposited in the morgue.
Anne Bowles (Tisa Farrow) is questioned by the police, since the boat belonged to her father (Ugo Bologna). She only knows that her father left for a tropical island to do research. Reporter Peter West (Ian McCulloch) is assigned by his news editor (director Lucio Fulci in a cameo) to report on the mysterious boat. Anne and Peter meet on the boat and discover a note from Anne's father saying he is on the island of Matool (Saint Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands) suffering from a strange disease. Anne and Peter decide to investigate together. They arrive in the tropics and enlist the aid of a seafaring couple, Bryan Curt (Al Cliver aka Pier Luigi Conti) and Susan Barrett (Auretta Gay), to help find the island.
Matool is a cursed place where the dead rise to attack the living. Dr. David Menard (Richard Johnson), a resident on the island and physician at the local mission, is investigating its secrets. His contemptuous, highly strung wife Paola (Olga Karlatos) wants to leave the island in fear of the increasing zombie attacks, but Menard insists on staying to continue his research.
The group is almost near the island when Susan decides to deep sea dive. As she prepares, Anne and Peter look at her as she only wears underwear with no top. As Susan dives she is encountered by a Great White shark. The shark tried to attack her but she manages to hide on the corals. She immediately gets out of the water and begs for help as the shark is ready to attack her. Bryan gets the gun and shoots the shark, but the shark hits the boat, forcing them to lose control. Susan dives under again and tries to escape, but the shark swims on top of her as she barely escapes. A zombie attacks her hiding on a coral, but she manages to avoid the zombie and hits it with a coral, and the shark attacks the zombie but the zombie tears its chest killing the shark. Another shark attacks the zombie and bites at the zombies arm, disconnecting it from the body.
Susan manages to get on the boat as Anne, Peter and Bryan help her. She explains what she saw to them. Meanwhile, Dr. Menard and his nurse (Stefania D'Amario) continue to study the zombies. Some of them are newly bitten, some are on the stage of zombiefication and some are already decomposing. Lucas (Dakar) appears on the door, and asks Dr. Menard how to kill the zombies. He also says that the zombies are attacking everyone on the island.
Night falls and Menards wife, Paola, takes a shower. The camera shows a zombie spying on her from outside the house. Paola get out of the shower and she sees the zombie. The zombie comes in and tries to open the door just as Paola was trying to close it. She manages to close the door and barricaded herself by putting the weight of her body against the door. While blocking the door the zombies hands breaks through the door and grabs her hair. In possibly the most famous scene from the movie, Paola's eye is pierced by a large splintered piece of wood and she is then killed off camera.
The boat finally arrives at the dock. Back at the hospital the nurse wakes Dr. Menard from a deep sleep. She tells him that Matthias (Franco Fantasia) died because of the infection. Dr. Menard waits for his friends body to reanimate and proceeds to shoot him in the head. As Lucas is digging the burial of Matthias and the others that died from the contagion he saw a flair gun fire. He follows it and discovers the crew from the boat. Dr. Menard tells Anne about her Father and when the contagion started. As they arrive, Lucas says that something happened to Fritz (Leo Gavero). He tells the group to go to his mansion where Paola is located. He approaches Fritz and he says that he was bitten.
The group arrive at the mansion where they discover the horribly mutilated corpse of Paola being eaten by zombies. A swarm of zombies attack them but they escape. They get in the jeep and drive down the road when they lose control and drive off the road. Peters knee is badly hurt. The group traverse through the jungle when Peter takes a rest. Anne takes the time to examine his wound. Susan and Bryan explore the surrounding when Bryan finds an old helmet. It appears that the group have stumbled onto a Spanish Cemetery. Anne and Peter are laying on the ground and proceed to make out when a zombie grabs her hair and another zombie grabs Peter's foot. Bryan hear Anne's scream and he follows it and leaves Susan. In another famous scene, a petrified Susan watches in horror as an ominous, worm infested zombie conquistador rises through the earth, lunges at her and tears out her throat. Bryan saves Anne and Peter but fails to save Susan. He shoots the rotting zombie in the back twice but it still stands, until Peter grabs a nearby wooden cross and smashes the zombie's head, destroying it. The group then head back to the hospital.
More and more zombies rise from their graves. The group finally arrive at the hospital and barricade themselves inside. Dr. Menard asks what happened Paola. The group explain that she is dead. Dr. Menard explains to them that it's a voodoo curse which make the dead rise. He also explains he is still searching for an answer to stopping the curse. The zombies than begin their assault on the hospital. Dr. Menard goes to look for bullets and is attacked by a reanimated Fritz killing him. Bryan saw the attack and shoots Fritz in the head. The ones that have been infected in the hospital begin to reanimate and bites Lucas on the arm and start attacking the nurse. Peter hears her scream and tries to help her but a zombie breaks out the window. Peter shoots the zombie. He helps the nurse and continues his defense against the undead. The nurse goes to get some supplies but a reanimated Lucas grabs and bites her.
The zombies finally destroy the main door and break in. Peter and Bryan shoot at the zombies while Anne throws Molotov cocktails at them. They manage to kill some of the zombies and escape the hospital which is now burning down. The last of the group are on the road heading to the boat the road and all the while killing more zombies but a reanimated Susan appears in front of Bryan and bites his arm. Peter shoots the reanimated Susan in the head. They reach the boat and sail away. Now out at sea, Bryan is showing bad signs of contagion. He dies and they lock him in one of the rooms on the boat, taking the reanimated Bryan with them as evidence. When they reach the open ocean, however, they receive a radio report that a plague of zombies has attacked New York City. As the credits roll, the zombies are walking on the Brooklyn bridge, leaving an unknown fate to Peter and Anne.
Zombi 2's success in Europe reignited Fulci's sagging career and reinvented the director as a horror icon. Zombi 2 introduced several of his trademarks: hordes of shambling putrefied zombies, hyper-realistic gore and blood and the infamous "eyeball gag" (a character is impaled or otherwise stabbed through the eyeball). Fulci would go on to direct several more horror films. There is some controversy about when the Zombi 2 screenplay was written, and if it lifted dialogue from Dawn of the Dead.
Despite the popularity of the film, Zombi 2 was banned in several countries, including Great Britain, due to its gore content. It was released by Vipco but with a lot of violence edited out. It was finally released uncut in 2005. Lead actor Ian McCulloch, who is British, never actually had the opportunity to watch the full film until he recorded a commentary for the Roan Group's laserdisc release of Zombi 2 in 1998, and was shocked at the gore level.
Zombi 2's European box office take led to four sequels. All have self-contained plots. While the Zombi series proved to be lucrative, Zombi 2 is by far the most recognizable of the European zombie films.
The film was released in Italy, as an action adventure thriller with no link to George A. Romero's films. The opening and closing scenes (which take place in New York) were added to the script later when the producers wanted to cash-in on the success of Dawn of the Dead.
The infamous shark vs. zombie scene was filmed in a large salt water tank and the shark was fed horse meat and sedatives before filming.
Zombi 2 was released merely as Zombie in America and was considered a stand-alone film with no connection to Romero's zombie canon. The theatrical trailers for Zombie provided the memorable tagline of "We Are Going to Eat You!" and showcased some of the make-up effects, but did nothing to indicate the plot of the picture (although the audience was indeed warned about the graphic content of the film: a humorous crawl at the end of the preview promises "barf bags" to whoever requested them upon viewing the film).
Released theatrically to U. S. theaters and drive-in theaters in the summer of 1980 from distributor The Jerry Gross Organization (no longer in existence today), its tagline was: "When the earth spits out the dead... They will return to tear the flesh of the living..."
The film developed a cult following after its release on home video, although a series of low budget releases from Wizard Video, Magnum Entertainment and Edde Entertainment (through subsidiary T-Z Video) featured a muddy full screen transfer of the film that disappointed some audiences. In February 1998, the film was released on VHS, DVD and laserdisc by Anchor Bay and The Roan Group respectively. Both versions used a widescreen film print, which pleased those who were unhappy with previous cropped presentations. But little was done to improve the transfer, which was still as dark and muddy as film's original VHS release. The VHSDVDLaserdisc version also omitted several shots of nudity from the film and other miscellaneous bits because of print damage.
Five years later, Blue Underground and Media Blasters, the latter of which used their Shriek Show horror banner, struck a deal to release the film on DVD yet again, this time with a newly remastered, uncut version of the film from the original negative. Now truly complete and no longer muddy looking, the two DVDs were released with Media Blasters using the film's original name Zombi 2 while Blue Underground released the film under the Americanized Zombie name. The Media Blasters release also contained a second disc filled with bonus material. The Media Blasters and Blue Underground releases differ slightly in their video. The Blue Underground version is encoded for progressive scan while the MB release is not.
Also worth noting are the differences between the 2004 Media Blasters and Blue Underground releases and the 1998 Anchor Bay disc, which often get confused. While Anchor Bay has a history of showing a great deal of respect for the preservation of purity in original director-approved and uncut film releases, the 1998 Anchor Bay release of Zombi 2 inexplicably has a few seconds of footage omitted which can be found intact on the 2004 Blue Underground and Media Blasters releases. Both feature comparable digitally remastered, anamorphic 16:9 transfers, Dolby Digital 5.1 soundtracks as well as bonus materials.
The film was released by Blue Underground on Blu-ray (as well as a new DVD edition) on 25 October 2011 with a new 2K transfer.
The other films in the Zombi series made it to America as video releases—none were released theatrically in the States, or had any real connection with this entry other than zombies.
Zombi 2 was released in the UK in the early 1980s as Zombie Flesh Eaters, which was passed with nearly 2 minutes of cuts for cinema exhibition. The original Australian version of the film used this cut. It was later released in the same "X" version on video. Some time later, the distributor decided to release a "Strong Uncut Version" on video, which caused it to be placed on the Director of Public Prosecutions list of "video nasties". Three scenes in particular were criticized by the British Parliament for their bloody and graphic content. The eye gouge scene through a splinter, the zombie feast scene, and the scene in which a petrified Susan has her throat excavated by a zombie conquistador.
A cut version of the film was released in the early 1990s, although the video's sleeve notes mistakenly described the film as being uncut. The film was re-submitted in 1999, and an "Extreme Version" was passed, with only minimal cuts to the eye gouge scene, and the zombie feast. The British Board of Film Classification did not have a problem passing the movie uncut, but as it was still classed as having been prosecuted for obscenity, they could not by law. By 2005 it was removed from the list of obscene publications and was finally passed uncut, and released as part of the Video Nasties: The Definitive Guide DVD box set.
The film was followed by one official sequel, Zombi 3, and numerous unofficial sequels, including After Death and Killing Birds.

This audaciously disgusting spectacle from the late master of gruesome horror, Lucio Fulci, was posited as a semi-sequel to George Romero's Dawn of the Dead, which was released in Italy as Zombi. Tisa Farrow and a group of vacationing tourists travel to an island where they find a doctor (Richard Johnson) who is attempting to cure a condition that reanimates the dead. Things quickly get out of control as undead Spanish conquistadors crawl from their graves hungry for human flesh. The nauseatingly graphic set-pieces by Gianetto de Rossi include a close-up of a woman's eye being pierced by a large shard of wood and a zombie fighting a Great White shark underwater. This relatively well-made shocker was enormously popular worldwide and led to the zombie-gore film becoming the dominant motif of 1980s Italian horror. ~ Robert Firsching, RoviSee All Zombie Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 92&nbsp;mins
