Atrocious is a 2010 Spanish horror film, written and directed by Fernando Barreda Luna, that was released in the United States (US) on August 17, 2011.
The film relays the story of two siblings during an Easter holiday at their family's country house in Sitges; the brother decides to investigate a local urban legend involving the ghost of a missing girl named Melinda.
Cristian Quintanilla (Cristian Valencia) and his sister July (Clara Moraleda) have a web-show of "paranormal investigations" covering urban legends. When they are invited to spend the Easter holidays at the family's summer home, they intend to investigate the story of Melinda, a girl that went missing in 1940 and supposedly haunts the woods. The investigation turns dangerous when the family dog is found in a nearby well, presumably killed by Melinda or her ghost. Five days later, the police find the bodies of the Quintanilla family and recover the video footage shot by Cristian and July.
Throughout the film, Cristian and July spend a great deal of time wandering around the hedge maze near the summer home. Their father reveal that their mother once knew the maze quite well in her youth. The two teenagers refuse to let their 8-year old brother José join them in their video escapades.
Upon finding a well in the hedge maze, Cristian leans into it and calls Melinda's name. July chastises him for being disrespectful.
The morning after the dog, Robin, goes missing, Cristian and July look for him, eventually finding him, dead, at the bottom of the well in the maze. They do not tell José or their mother. That night, their mother enters their room, screaming José's name, claiming that he has gone missing. The mother and the two children leave the house and head to the hedge maze to search for José.
They are inevitably separated. Eventually, Cristian finds July, tied to the pillars of a small gazebo, bleeding profusely. He leads her back to the house, where they find José's burnt body in the fireplace. They then hear noises outside and July hides in a kitchen cupboard, while Cristian goes to the front door. An axe blade bursts through the door, and Cristian runs upstairs to hide in the bedroom.
The next morning, Cristian goes downstairs to find the kitchen cupboard empty and drenched in blood. July is missing. Cristian goes into the basement, where he sees a videotape playing on an old VCR. It is a tape of his mother, in a mental institution, being interviewed by her doctors. The tape mentions that schizophrenic episodes in adolescent women have a tendency to reoccur, and that the night can bring them on. It is established that Cristian and July once had a baby sister named Michelle, and that their mother had a psychotic break as the result of postpartum depression, and killed her. The doctors establish that their mother has always blamed the episodes on a woman named Elvira and attempt to ask her about this woman.
As Cristian watches this tape, his mother comes up behind him and slaughters him with an axe.
The film has received mixed reviews, with Rotten Tomatoes listing sixteen reviews, 56% of which are favorable. Bill Gibron of PopMatters gave it seven of ten stars, concluding: "Thankfully, writerdirector Fernando Barreda Luna knows enough about building suspense to overcome the movie's many shortcomings."
Paranormal investigator Christian and his sister, July, encounter a terrifying force of evil while spending Easter at their family's country house in Sitges. Back in 1940, a little girl got lost in a gated part of the property, never to be seen again. Now Christian and his sister will be the first to learn the awful truth about her terrifying ordeal. Once they do, the only thing that will be left to tell the story will be the videotape that shocked an entire nation. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 75&nbsp;mins
