The Theatre Bizarre is a 2011 horror anthology film. The six segments are directed by Douglas Buck, Buddy Giovinazzo, David Gregory, Karim Hussain, Tom Savini and Richard Stanley.
The film contain six stories, each inspired by Paris’ legendary Grand Guignol theatre.
The six stories are presented within a connecting framework, "Theatre Guignol": Enola Penny is intrigued by an abandoned theatre in her neighborhood. One night the theatre door mysteriously opens and she enters. A puppet host (or Guignol) introduces six short films. "Mother of Toads", "I Love You", "Wet Dreams", "The Accident", "Vision Stains" and "Sweets". As each is shown, the host becomes more human and Enola becomes more puppet-like.
"I Love You", "Wet Dreams" and "Sweets" match the Grand Guignol genre: physical or psychological conte cruel horror with natural explanations, cynical, amoral, ironic, sexy or gory in combinations.
"Mother of Toads" is loosely based on a supernatural horror story by Clark Ashton Smith. In "Vision Stains" a writerserial killer injects fluid extracted from her victims' eyes into her own to experience their lives for her journals. Most reviews note "The Accident" seems out of place: a mother and daughter thoughtfully discuss the nature of death after witnessing an accident.
The film is a co-production between United States based Severin Films and France based Metaluna Productions.
Each director was given the same budget, schedule and narrative directive. Other than that, they were given free rein to create their 10-20 minute segments.
Richard Stanley's segment is an adaptation of the short story Mother of Toads by Clark Ashton Smith.
The film has received mainly mixed reviews, it currently holds a score of 43% on Rotten Tomatoes. Online movie review site, From the Mind of Tatlock had a negative experience, saying "The Theatre Bizarre is 113 minutes too long, the acting is awful, the stories are complete nonsense and boring. This movie was a giant waste of my time."
A curious young woman sneaks into a derelict movie theater and experiences six tales of Grand Guignol terror in this horror anthology featuring contributions by Buddy Giovinazzo, Tom Savini, Jeremy Kasten, Richard Stanley, David Gregory, Douglas Buck, and Karim Hussain. As the sinister host (Udo Kier) emerges to introduce the show, the screen flickers to life and the terror begins to build. In Buddy Giovinazzo's "I Love You," a bewildered man (Andre M. Hennicke) awakens with a gruesome hand injury and a debilitating case of amnesia, and he endures a brutal verbal onslaught from his unfaithful wife (Suzan Anbeh). Marital troubles continue when an abusive husband gets his gruesome comeuppance in Tom Savini's "Wet Dreams," and an anthropologist (Shane Woodward) and his frivolous partner (Victoria Maurette) encounter an enigmatic witch (Catriona MacColl) who casts a seductive spell before making a grotesque transformation in Richard Stanley's "The Mother of Toads." Hopelessly depressed after being rejected by his gorgeous girlfriend Estelle (Lindsay Goranson), portly sugar addict Greg (Guilford Adams) discovers that you really are what you eat in David Gregory's "Sweets," and a female serial killer seeking to preserve the tragic memories of society's outcasts finds an unusual means of doing so in Karim Hussain's "Vision Stains." Elsewhere, in Douglas Buck's "The Accident," a mother searches for the words to comfort her traumatized young daughter after the pair witness the sudden death of a friendly motorcyclist. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 113&nbsp;mins
