Kill Katie Malone is a 2010 American horror film directed by Carlos Ramos Jr. and starring Masiela Lusha from The George Lopez Show and Dean Cain of Lois & Clark fame. The screenplay was written by Mark Onspaugh.
In the opener, Robert who owns the box holding Katie Malone's spirit, discovers the spirit threatening the life of his spouse. When he goes to save her, he is violently thrown from the room. Cut to some time later, Jim Duncan at the fictional college of Mission University notices the box for sale on a site resembling EBay and is intrigued by it. He wants to buy it, but he doesn't have enough money and finagles the extra money he needs from his best friends Ginger Matheson and Kyle "Dixie" Canning, which makes them part owners in the box. However, now that Robert no longer owns the box, Katie is free to threaten him one last time at the bus station before vanishing from his life. Jim eventually receives the box in a pakage and opens it as a strange sound comes from it. He thinks its just a good luck charm and asks Ginger and Dixie made wishes off it. Half seriously, Ginger asks for a red rose, but Dixie just wants his money back. When she gets her rose, Ginger accuses Jim and Dixie of trying to scare her. However, when Dixie is harangued by a teacher for allegedly plagiarizing a term paper, he makes an off the cuff "wish" that she would leave him alone. That night, the teacher experiences a paranormal presence before being pinned to a wall and forced to bite off her own tongue. In class the next day, Jim and Ginger make amends over their fight just as Ginger discovers her roommate Misty has been borrowing her clothes without asking. After learning about the horrific death of the teacher which has been ruled a murder, Dixie and Ginger wonder of Katie was responsible. In art class, Misty accidentally snags and rips Ginger's sweater on a table just as something slides the paper slider to in front of her, pins her arm under it and chops her right arm off even as a teacher tries to stop her. Dixie and Ginger are more than convinced the box is responsible for the murders, but Jim is not quite so convinced. After a poltergeist attack in their dorm room, Jim discovers writing on the wall in a strange language and turns it over to his friend, Kendall, in the linguistics class. Meanwhile, he tries to contact the previous owner of the box for information, but before sending the message, he gets reminded of his previous commitment to help Ellen set up her sorority's haunted house, but his effort only gets a threat threat from her boyfriend, Tyler, who sees Jim as a threat to Ellen's affections. As Tyler heads home, he encounters the ghost of a young girl in period dress that he tries to help. When he refuses to leave her alone, her banshee scream virtually disinegrates him. Jim meanwhile contacts Amy, who asks him if he opened the box and let her go. Ellen soon calls him asking if he has seen Tyler, but when he tries to endear himself to her, she backs off and announces they could only be friends with him which breaks Jim's heart. While jogging, Ellen is attacked by a spirit and subsequently ripped apart under a bridge. By now, Jim realizes things have gone too far. He discovers the strange message left for him on the wall translates from Gaelic as "A family or death." After researching Katie Malone, he learns she was an Irish immigrant who was forced into slavery and beloved by the daughter of her last owner who protected her. Failing to protect her from her father, the child's ghost now protects Katie into the afterlife. Meeting with Ginger and Dixie, he opts to lay Katie to rest by freeing her from the box, discarding the box and getting on with his life. Jim and Ginger soon have a date that wraps at her room at the student housing structure, but the daughter's wrathful spirit terrifies Jim, and Ginger mistakenly believes Jim is not actually fond of her. She throws him out of the apartment, and back at his room, Jim is contacted by Amy who learns Jim released Katie's spirit. She realizes the daughter's vengeful spirit will now come and kill him and his friends unless he very quickly sells the box, which has returned to his room, back to her. At the campus Halloween party, Ginger recognizes the daughter's ghost, who attacks the party throwing their classmates around the hall. Dixie and Ginger escape through the basement and come up into the basement where Dixie is abducted in the dark and is killed. Ginger flees into the hall just as Jim returns to drive the daughter's ghost into the box, saving Ginger from being killed. In the tag scene, Amy now has the box and swears to never open it, trying to hide it from her father, but Robert returns home and learns his daughter has reacquired it. Upset, he tries to wrestle it from her, but it falls and hits the floor, opening on impact. A strange sound fills the room, and Amy's bedroom door slams shut as father and daughter fear for the worse...
"You can't choose your family, but she can."
Critical response to Kill Katie Malone (2010) has generally been negative. The horror movie website, Dread Central gives it only two out of five stars for its over-all rating. 
The Possession, (2012) an earlier film with a similar premise.
Four college students purchase an antique box containing ghost in an online auction, and realize it's no joke when the vengeful wraith unleashes her supernatural wrath. Featuring Dean Cain. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 91&nbsp;mins
