Silent Night is a 2012 horror film directed by Steven C. Miller. It is a very loose remake of Charles E. Sellier's 1984 film Silent Night, Deadly Night. The film was given a theatrical release on November 30, 2012 and was released on DVD and Blu-ray on December 4, 2012.
A small-town sheriff and deputy are on the hunt for a murderous Santa Claus terrorizing their community on Christmas Eve. But with the streets full of Santas for the annual Christmas parade, the killer is hiding in plain sight. He has made his list, checked it twice, and the naughty are going to pay with their lives.
Distributed by Anchor Bay, the film was released in theaters for a limited run in select cities on November 30, and then on DVD and Blu-ray, on December 4.
The film has received generally mixed to positive reviews from critics. Rotten Tomatoes reports that 64% of 11 critics have given the film a positive review, with a rating average of 6.110. Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average score based on reviews from mainstream critics, awarded the film an average score of 53 based on 4 reviews.
The Los Angeles Times wrote that "The movie's intended audience will likely be satisfied by its parade of gory mayhem, cheap thrills and groan-worthy dark humor. Everyone else: You're on your own" while The Hollywood Reporter called the film a "cinematic lump of coal" and a "formulaic effort". Variety felt that the film was "a singularly glum and dumb enterprise" and concluded "apart from some modestly inventive carnage and an undeniably humorous hambone turn by Malcolm McDowell, there's really nothing here to make genre fans dash through the snow".
Silent Night was met with mostly positive reception by several horror film sites, such as Slasher Studios ("It might not be everyone's cup of egg nog but for what it's worth it is definitely worth a look") and Oh, The Horror! ("it's one of the better recent remakes"). Bloody Disgusting gave a score of three and a half out of five, writing "While Silent Night does not add anything new to the subgenre, it delivers the ho ho horror with its spectacular kills and tongue-in-cheek humor. This is a fun film that is bound to spread some holiday cheer in the hearts' of slasher fans" and Fearnet stated "this straightforward and scrappy little remake is somehow more entertaining than half of what passes for "wide release" horror movies these days. Toss in some fine cinematography, some cool musical touches, and just enough "in jokes" to keep the hardcore horror fans happy, Silent Night certainly isn't great, but it is consistently fun, and that's more than enough—especially for a horror remake." 
Silent Night, Deadly Night gets the remake treatment with this Anchor Bay release starring Jaime King as a young deputy who's on the hunt for a killer dressed as Santa Claus. With the help of her quirky sheriff (Malcolm McDowell) and her father (John B. Lowe), a retired cop-turned-Santa portrayer, the fresh-faced officer stalks the streets of her small Midwestern town as its citizens prepare for the annual Christmas Eve parade -- unaware that a maniac is on the hunt for naughty festivalgoers. Steven C. Miller directs from a script by Jayson Rothwell. ~ Jeremy Wheeler, RoviSee All Silent Night Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 94&nbsp;mins
