Snow White: A Deadly Summer is a low budget horror film. The film was released straight to DVD and digital download on March 20, 2012.
Eve doesn't like her stepdaughter Snow getting in her way of being fully loved by her husband. Snow's stepmother talks to a reflection of herself which tells her what to do. With her reflection's persistence, Eve sends Snow to a camp for juvenile delinquents where they are killed off. As they are killed off Snow has dreams that show her the killings and giver her clues into whowhat the killer is and why it is doing what it does, but she has to be careful. Not everyone in the camp is as trustworthy as they seem and those who run it are hiding something.
Maureen McCormick, who was in The Brady Bunch, had her first starring role after a long time. McCormick said that her only problem was having to pretend that she hated the main actress, Shanley Caswell. The film has Snow White in the title because the main character's name is Snow and her evil stepmother wants her dead.
The DVD was released in widescreen with a Dolby 2.0 Stereo mix. The special features are a commentary with the director and two cast members, production photos, and the film's trailer.
A Dread Central review said that the film could have been called Snow White and the Seven Delinquents or Snow White: A Deadly Dullness. Dawn Hunt of DVD Verdict thinks that the film fails most spectacularly on any expectations that viewers may have from Snow White being in the title.
SNOW (Shanley Caswell) was stunned when her FATHER (Eric Roberts) remarried. Still hurt and reeling, Snow began a cycle of bad behavior. Resentful of the tension Snow has caused in the house, her stepmother LINDA (Maureen McCormick), convinces her father to send Snow away to a discipline camp. Snow learns that the camp has a history. There had been a murder there years prior and the prime suspect, one of the campers, disappeared into the woods never to be found again. When Snow starts to suspect that someone is watching from a distance& stalking them& she wonders if the killer may have returned. Soon, campers start dying off. Snow's stepmother uses the camp's troubled history as an excuse to get Snow out of the picture. She's been killing the campers one by one and now Snow is next!See All Snow White: A Deadly Summer Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 90&nbsp;mins
