Needle is a 2010 independent supernatural horror film starring Michael Dorman, Jessica Marais, Travis Fimmel, Trilby Glover, and Ben Mendelsohn, and directed by John V. Soto. Needle is structured as a murder mystery, with six distinct clues pointing to one of ten suspects; the trailer is intentionally misleading. The film premiered at Cinefest OZ in August 2010, and has since screened at the British Horror Film Festival and Screamfest Horror Film Festival; as well as the Melbourne Underground Film Festival. Needle had a limited 8 screen release in Australian cinemas on the 28th of July, 2011. The film also had a successful release in Turkey on the 29th July, 2011 where it opened at No.4 at the box office on 62 screens. Needle played for 13 weeks eventually grossing USD$259,185  . At the 1st of September, 2012, Needle has been sold in 82 countries worldwide with rights for major territories going to Lionsgate (USA), High Fliers (UK), Telepool (Germany), Playarte (Brazil), SND (France), Shochiku (Japan) and Sony (Australia)  Needle was filmed over six weeks in Perth, Western Australia.
Director John V. Soto credits influences from such horror and mystery films as Hellraiser, Urban Legend, and I Know What You Did Last Summer.
Ben Rutherford (Michael Dorman), a college student, inherits from his father an 18th century box, called Le Vaudou Mort.
Ben shows the box to his friends, and the very same night the box is stolen. Soon after that, his closest friends start dying in mysterious ways. Le Vaudou Mort is actually a "voodoo" machine designed as a tool for revenge. When the target's photograph is put into the box, a wax doll is created, giving the user power to kill or physically harm the represented person. A killer has started to use the device against Ben’s friends.
Ben, still unaware of the nature of the box and of the fact that it has been stolen, shows some picture of Le Vaudou Mort to Professor Banyon, his archaeology teacher, seeking information on the origins of the box. Professor Baynon contacts Dr. Halmanay, who provides to Ben some clues on the origins and uses of the box.
Ben and his brother Marcus (Travis Fimmel), who has not been forgiven by Ben since their father died in a car accident after a harsh discussion with him, figure out the power of the device and search for the killer.
The killer is finally revealed to be Kandi. She is seeking revenge for the death of her father, killed and robbed ten years earlier by Samuel Rutherford, Ben's father. After the murder, her mother became insane and she grew up in foster homes. Kandi is carrying out her plan to make Ben to experience the loss of his friends for no apparent reason and finally kill him. Her plans fail due to the reaction of the two brothers and Mary and she is killed by means of Le Vaudou Mort.
A college student inherits a mysterious machine with deadly powers, and races to save his friends when someone begins using it to seek bloody revenge. Shortly after Ben Rutherford's father passes away, the young student is bequeathed a machine known as "La Vaudou Mort". Later, after showing the bizarre inheritance to his friends, "La Vaudou Mort" vanishes without a trace. Later, as Ben attempts to figure out who would have stolen the machine, he learns that his best friend Ryan has suffered a horrific death. With the help of his archeology Professor Banyon, Ben learns that "La Vaudou Mort" was built in the 19th Century by an engineer named "Rubinstein" who had powerful ties to the occult. He created the machine as a weapon of revenge, and now someone has begun using it against Ben and his friends - but why? With the help of his estranged brother Marcus, Ben begins searching frantically for "La Vaudou Mort" and attempts to save the lives of the few friends he still has left. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 89&nbsp;mins
