The Tortured is a 2010 mystery horror-thriller film directed by Robert Lieberman and written by Marek Posival.
The film tells the story of a couple whose life is broken when a serial killer kidnaps, tortures and kills their only son. The wife blames her husband. In order to obtain revenge, the couple kidnap and torture the serial killer, but then have to deal with the stress of torturing him.
The Twisted Pictures film features Erika Christensen, Bill Moseley, and Jesse Metcalfe in the leads. It is based on the screenplay, "Act of Redress", by Czech screenwriter, Marek Posival, and was directed by Rob Lieberman.
The scenes involving the fictional "Paz Fuels" truck stop were shot in Langley, British Columbia, while the others scenes were filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia. Mark Burg, Oren Koules, Carl Mazzocone and Marek Posival produced the film for Twisted Light Productions. Minor roles are played by Zak Santiago, Lynn Colliar, Chelah Horsdal, and Fulvio Cecere. The role of Kozlowski was to originally be played by Charlie Sheen, but Sheen left the project on June 30, 2008.
The multi-instrumentalist Jeff Rona composed the score.
Eclectic Film Sales released the film on November 8, 2009 over the American Film Market. It had its premiere as part of the 2010 FrightFest. The film was released on DVD and Blu-ray in the UK on October 18, 2010. In 2012, it was released limitedly in theaters and on VOD in the US.
The Tortured received negative reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a 6% approval rating, based on 17 reviews. On Metacritic, the film also has a score of 9 out of 100, based on 8 reviews. Rex Reed of The New York Observer wrote that the film is "unconvincingly written" and "awkwardly directed". Elizabeth Weitzman of New York City's Daily News wrote, "There’s really nothing here to recommend, other than bravely stalwart performances from the leads. It’s bluntly written, poorly shot and edited, and cruel without being clever."
Robert H. Lieberman directs this thriller following a revenge-obsessed couple who take justice into their own hands when their child's murderer manages to plea bargain his way into a light sentence. Before long, the devastated parents have conspired to kidnap the killer and force him to suffer for his sins. ~ Tracie Cooper, RoviSee All The Tortured Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 82&nbsp;mins
