Wrong Turn 4: Bloody Beginnings is a 2011 American horror film and the fourth installment in the Wrong Turn franchise that began in 2003 and continued with Dead End and Left for Dead. The fourth film serves as a prequel to the previous films. It was released direct-to-DVD and Blu-ray on October 25, 2011.
In 1974, at the Glensville Sanatorium, West Virginia, Dr. Brendan Ryan (Arne MacPherson) shows local psychiatrist Dr. Ann McQuaid (Kristen Harris) around the psychiatric hospital. He shows her three deformed patients, Three-Finger, One-Eye and Saw-Tooth, who all have the ability to inflict pain and not feel it. While Dr. Ryan and Dr. McQuaid move on, one of the mental patients grabs Dr. McQuaid's hair and rips out her hair clip, which she does not notice. The patient gives the hair clip to Saw-Tooth. The three deformed patients use the clip to pick the lock and escape their cells. They release the other patients as well, and together they kill the orderlies and doctors.
In 2003, Kenia (Jenny Pudavick), a lesbian couple Sara (Tenika Davis) and Bridget (Kaitlyn Wong), along with their friends Claire (Samantha Kendrick), boyfriend Kyle (Victor Zinck, Jr.), Jenna (Terra Vnesa), boyfriend Vincent (Sean Skene), Lauren (Ali Tataryn) and boyfriend Daniel (Dean Armstrong) are going snowmobiling, heading to Porter's cabin in the mountains. En route, they lose their way in the snowstorm and must find shelter in the abandoned Glenville Sanatorium.
The teens explore the asylum and decide to wait out the storm. Lauren remembers her brother's stories about the sanatorium and the cannibals, but her friends do not believe her. After the group go to bed, Vincent, suffering from insomnia, begins strolling around the asylum. After finding Porter's corpse, Vincent is attacked and killed by Saw-Tooth. The next day as the storm continues, the group notice that Vincent is missing and begin to look for him. While searching for him, Jenna witnesses the cannibals butchering Porter's body, and she runs back to tell the others. After they find Porter's severed head, Claire is caught around the throat with a strip of barbed wire and lifted up to a near-by balcony. Kyle attempts to save her, but the cannibals pull Claire tighter, decapitating her. The group flees, but the cannibals have stripped off their spark plug wires on their snowmobiles. Lauren skis down the mountain to retrieve help, while the others barricade themselves in a doctor's office.
Later, Sara, Daniel, and Kyle go to the basement to find weapons. After discovering an arsenal of knives and other tools, they return to the others, but Daniel is captured by the cannibals. The rest of the group overhears his screams and runs back to save him, but they arrive too late and find he has already been eaten alive. The teens encounter the cannibals and began chasing them, successfully trapping them in a cell. Most of the group wants to kill the cannibals, but Kenia refuses, saying that they would be just like the cannibals if they resorted to execution now that they had them at bay. The girls leave Kyle to guard the cannibals as they set off to find the spark plug wires. While Kyle is asleep, the cannibals use Dr. McQuaid's hair clip to escape and attack him. Giving up their search for the spark plug wires, the girls return to the doctor's office. During the night, they encounter someone they believe to be a cannibal, and stab him to death, only to realize that they have actually killed Kyle.
Realizing that they are locked in the building, Sara breaks a window and digs a tunnel through the snow. The girls escape, but Jenna is killed before she can get out. As Kenia, Sara, and Bridget attempt to get away, the cannibals chase them on snowmobiles. The girls are separated the cannibals attack and kill Bridget.
As the day dawns, Lauren has frozen to death in the storm. Kenia is still searching for the road when One-Eye reappears on a snowmobile. Sara arrives and saves Kenia, knocking One-Eye off the snowmobile and allowing the pair to steal it. As Kenia and Sara drive away, they accidentally run into a strip of barbed wire, decapitating them both. Three-Finger picks up their heads and puts them in a tow truck, before driving away with the other cannibals.
Wrong Turn 4: Bloody Beginnings was released to DVD and Blu-ray on October 25, 2011. The film entered the DVD chart at number 13, selling 45,928 copies in its first week. To date the film has sold 143,000 units in America. The film received mixed to negative reviews upon its release. It currently holds a 20% on Rotten Tomatoes.

College friends take shelter in an abandoned hospital after a giant snow-storm forces them to rethink their vacation plans for winter break. Now they have to fight for their lives as psychos who used to live there try to kill them all. ~ Perry Seibert, RoviSee All Wrong Turn 4: Bloody Beginnings Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 93&nbsp;mins
