Inkubus is a horror film produced by the Woodhaven Production Company, written by Carl Dupré, and directed by Glenn Ciano. The film stars Robert Englund, William Forsythe, Joey Fatone, Jonathan Silverman, Mike Cerrone, Tom Denucci, and Michelle Ray Smith.
'Inʞubus' tells the story of a skeleton crew working the final shift at a soon-to-be demolished police station in Wood Haven, Rhode Island. The night takes a gruesome turn when the demon, Inkubus (Robert Englund), calmly walks into the station holding the severed head of a murdered girl. Inkubus toys with the crew, allowing himself to be restrained, and begins to proudly confess to his litany of crimes, some dating back to the Middle Ages. Inkubus has a score to settle with the one detective (William Forsythe) that almost put him away some thirteen years ago. To their dismay, the cops quickly become pawns in Inkubus’ brutal crowning achievement of murder, gore, and mayhem.

Inkubus was filmed in Cranston, Rhode Island. It was produced by The Woodhaven Production Company, a fully funded film production company that started by established Rhode Island businessman and entrepreneur Chad A. Verdi. The original screenplay was written by Carl Dupre and developed with Glenn Ciano, writer of Homie Spumoni, who also directed and produced the feature.
The final shift at a condemned police station turns terrifying when a demon walks through the front door with a severed head, and a shocking series of confessions. Detective Caretti and Officer Cole thought their last night at the station would be uneventful, then Inkubus (Robert Englund) dropped in for a visit. Immediately restrained, Inkubus recalls the time 13 years ago when he was nearly apprehended for a gruesome murder. Now, Inkubus wants to speak with the detective who nearly ended his reign of supernatural terror. But as the night stretches on and the demon's true powers are revealed, it quickly becomes apparent that he's got a diabolical plan, and that no mere mortal can stop him. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Inkubus Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 88&nbsp;mins
