Nazis at the Center of the Earth is a direct-to-video horror sci-fi action film produced by The Asylum that stars Dominique Swain and Jake Busey. It was released on 24 April 2012 on Blu-ray Disc and DVD. The UK release was called Bloodstorm.
The film is similar to the popular PC game Wolfenstein 3D which shares the same story and characters of Nazi zombies set to take over the world. The film goes so far as to have Robot Hitler, the same enemy found at the end of Wolfenstein 3D. The story also shares similarities with the film Iron Sky.
A group of researchers in Antarctica are abducted by a platoon of gas-masked soldiers wearing swastika arm bands and dragged into a hidden continent in the center of the Earth. There, they discover that Dr. Josef Mengele and group of surviving Nazi soldiers are plotting an invasion of Earth to create a Fourth Reich.
Lawson received the directorial assignment after reading the script and pitching himself as director in the fall of 2011. The film took less than four months to make. On Asylum, Lawson said: "They are a low-budget film studio, I knew pretty much going in that this was going to be a B movie. We had a 12-day shoot and a budget well south of $200,000."
The entire movie was storyboarded by the director shot for shot before production began in November, 2011.
Locations for the film included Willow Studios in Los Angeles (underground in the Nazi bunker and Nifleheim Station), Blue Cloud Ranch in Santa Clarita (opening war night scenes and the underground cavern), and the Asylum Studios (hallways, labs, medical rooms, rapelling scenes and green screen virtual sets).
The film features one of the highest visual effects shot counts in an Asylum film, 379, and the effects were completed in just four weeks.
In his commentary director Joseph J. Lawson cites as his visual influences: Steven Spielberg, Peter Jackson, Sam Raimi, John Carpenter, John Landis, David Lean, J.J. Abrams and Robert Rodriguez.
Critical and audience reaction to the film has been mixed with everything from "absolute garbage" to "the Citizen Kane of Asylum films"(http:wizbangpop.com20120429dvd-review-nazis-at-the-center-of-the-earth) Most reviewers give it an average score but most, both positive and negative, agree it is a film that should be seen if only to be surprised by the outrageous things that happen.
An Antarctic research mission goes horribly awry when a team of scientists stumble into a secret Nazi base in the core of the planet. Miles beneath the icy surface of Antarctica, Dr. Josef Mengele (Christopher Karl Johnson) and his army of undead zombies are biding their time in anticipation of the day they will rise up to reclaim the Earth. After decades of planning, that time has finally come. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 90&nbsp;mins
