Kristen wakes up in the bed of a pickup truck and tries to escape only to be knocked unconscious by the man driving it.
College students, James and Will pick up Will's girlfriend Brooke and her friend Jenna as well as Brooke's protective older brother Kyle. The group drives to Madison County in order to meet David Randall, the author of a book based on a murderer named Damien Ewell, David has been in contact with James and has agreed to an interview for a class assignment. On the way they meet a trucker who suggests a shortcut which they don't take.
Once they arrive in Madison County, they go to a diner and the locals rudely stare at them except for a seemingly kind old woman named Erma who tells them Damien Ewell doesn't exist and David Randall moved years ago but she does tell them David's old address. When they leave, Will is threatened by a local for unintentionally taking a picture of his truck, the local backs off when Kyle confronts him.
The group arrives at David's house and finds it is indeed empty. Kyle takes James' SUV back into town to talk to the locals while the others wait at the house. Kyle checks a graveyard and is lured into the woods by 2 nude women. Kyle catches up to the women who skinny dip in a lake, distracted, Kyle doesn't notice Damien Ewell sneak up on him and Damien stabs Kyle and throws his body into the lake.
James discovers a picture confirming the old woman, Erma, is Damien's mother so he walks back into town and on the way he is nearly run over by the hostile local who earlier threatened Will. Will and Brooke are hiking and split up, once alone Will sees Kyle's body floating in a nearby river and shortly after Damien appears and kills Will and chases after Jenna and Brooke. Jenna and Brooke try to hide from Damien until Jenna decides to distract him away from Brooke, and after a brief fight Jenna is killed.
James confronts Erma who warns him that Damien will be coming for him soon, James leaves and the trucker from earlier who told him about the shortcut offers him a ride and tells James that he is David Randall. David drives James to Damien's house and knocks him out with a shovel.
James wakes up in a barn tied up along with David and his daughter Kristen, the girl from the beginning. David says he was forced to lure James and his friends to Madison County in an attempt to save the kidnapped Kristen. Damien enters the barn and stabs David in the stomach but James manages to free himself and wound Damien. James, Kristen, and the wounded David leave the barn and try to leave in a truck but Damien jumps into the bed of the truck and finishes off David who had been laying there. James slams on the break and knocks Damien out of the truck's bed and after a brief fight, James and Kristen escape in the truck.
Brooke walks back into town and arrives at the diner where she tells Erma that someone killed her friends. Erma tells her to wait outside by her car. While Brooke stands by Erma's car, Erma sneaks up behind her and stabs her to death as locals watch from their homes..
The teaser trailer was released on August 18, 2010. The film was written and directed by Eric England. The film premiered at the LA Screamfest.
The film received negative reviews. Shock Till You Drop said "Madison County is not original, follows a lot of the patterns that we've seen in other cliché horror movies and doesn't do much to distinguish itself from other entries in the genre."
Horror News.Net said "Madison County is a frustrating slasher film. It takes the standard Eighties slasher structure and executes it with precision and focus; however, it rarely takes any chances with the well worn formula which undermines the scares and tension."
Fear Net gave the film a positive review, saying "Madison County takes a while to get where it's going, but the final destination is satisfying enough."
Dread Central awarded the film 3 out of five and said "it certainly isn't a game-changing affair or anything but the film should definitely prove to be an enjoyable experience for all the indie horror loving masses out there and makes for a fun little popcorn flick for the slasher film fans as well."
A trip to a remote mountain town spells doom for a group of curious college kids researching a notorious serial killer in this bloody backwoods slasher flick. Compelled to visit Madison County after reading a book about the murderous maniac who once lived there, the curious students fail to locate the author of the gruesome tome, and get the cold shoulder from the local townspeople - who claim that no such crimes ever took place. Now the deeper the snooping tourists venture into the woods, the closer they get to the grisly truth. And once they find what they came looking for, no one will be left to confirm the legend of Madison County. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Madison County Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 82&nbsp;mins
