Smiley is a psychological slasher film directed by Michael Gallagher and made by Level 10 Films. The film stars Caitlin Gerard, Melanie Papalia, Shane Dawson, Andrew James Allen, Toby Turner and Liza Weil. The film was released on October 12, 2012.
A teenager. Stacy (Nikki Limo) is told the story of Smiley, an internet urban legend. Stacy gets mysteriously and violently killed while chatting with a stranger online.
Ashley (Caitlin Gerard) and Proxy (Melanie Palatial) move into a house together. After getting acquainted they go to a party hosted by Zane (Andrew James Allen), an internet hacker, and Binder (Shane Dawson). At the party Ashley hears the story of Smiley and doubts its reality. The next day Ashley and Proxy decide to try the Smiley test by typing "I did it for the lulz" three times in a video chat with a random user named Flasher (Jason Horton). Flasher gets mysteriously murdered. The girls are terrified but decide not to report the incident to the police.
Days later Proxy and Ashley attend another party and Ashley asks for more information about Smiley. Intoxicated, she runs into Smiley, who teases her and rips her dress. She wakes up the next morning in her bed. She tells Proxy what happened, but Proxy dismisses it as a dream. They visit Zane, who tells them that, despite his ability to retrieve most information on the web he has no clue as to what's happening. She decides to leave, but while walking home Zane pulls her away and confronts her about what she did.
Terrified and paranoid, Ashley tries to convince Proxy of what is happening, but her roommate leaves. She goes to one of her college professors, Clayton (Roger Bart), who scares her further. She tries to get help from a cop, Diamond (Keith David), who thinks she's crazy and shrugs her off. She goes to Zane’s house and is shocked to find him dead. Ashley grabs Zane's gun just as Smiley appears and chases her until Smiley loses track of Ashley.
Back at her house Ashley shoots at an intruding figure, only to discover it’s Binder. She tries to help him, but Smiley comes in and slashes his throat. Smiley chases her upstairs to her room, where she finds other Smiley killers. Backed to a window,and she jumps. Zane, Flasher, and others presumably killed by Smiley are revealed wearing smiley costumes. Binder tells them that Smiley is alive and that many others are copying him. The film ends with Zane talking to Proxy via video chat. Then Smiley appears on the video and kills her.
In a post credits scene, Ashley opens her eyes and gasps, showing that she is still alive.

Smiley is a low-budget film independently produced by Michael Gallagher, whose best known work is various episodes of Totally Sketch on YouTube.
The film was released in theaters, on video and demand, and via online streaming on October 12, 2012. In early 2013, it will be available on DVD, Blu-ray, and iTunes. The premiere of the film was held on October 9, 2012 at the Universal CityWalk in Universal City, Los Angeles.
There are two versions of the film: one rated TV-14 and one rated R. The film played in select AMC theaters throughout the United States, with fans able to request to host screenings of Smiley in their cities via Tugg.
Upon release, Smiley was panned almost universally, with the film holding a 15% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on an average rating of 3.210 based on 20 reviews; several reviews called the film a "rip off" of Scream and Candyman. Criticisms for the movie centered around claims of the movie being "dull" or "generic", with additional criticisms over the acting of the cast. Bloody Disgusting panned the film, stating that the writers "took a strong, modern idea, over-thought it and turned it into a generic ‘90s movie that’ll have you throwing popcorn at the screen". Variety called the film "uninspired", saying that "the mayhem here is neither especially gory nor suspenseful". Mark Olsen of The Los Angeles Times gave a more positive review, calling the film a "more or less satisfying low-key creeper". Olsen praised Gerard, Weil, David, and Bart's performances, however called the story-telling "repetitive". Mark Harris of About.com gave the film an overall C+ rating, praising the film's script and Bart's performance, however criticizing Gerard's performance, and stating that the film lacked of scares and genuine emotion.
A young woman tests the urban legend about a murderous maniac who can be conjured from the Internet, and begins to fear that her sanity is slipping away in this slasher thriller starring Magic Mike's Caitlin Gerard. Somewhere in the deepest recesses of the World Wide Web, a killer waits to strike. Ashley (Gerard) thought Smiley was nothing more than an online myth. But Smiley is real, and he won't rest until she's proven wrong in a pool of her own blood. Roger Bart, Keith David, and Liza Weil co-star. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Smiley Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 95&nbsp;mins
