Devil's Playground is a British horror film directed by Mark McQueen and starring Craig Fairbrass. Intandem Films has the worldwide rights to the film, which was produced by Freddie Hutton-Mills and Bart Ruspoli.
After the final stage of human testing goes horribly awry, the test subjects of the fictional pharmaceutical company N-Gen become violently ill. As the side effects worsen, the test subjects become increasingly violent until they are little but marauding beasts. Worse yet, their bites are infectious and in short order London is overrun with hordes of bloodthirsty monsters. Cole, a mercenary for N-Gen and a hardened killer, is searching for Angela Mills, the only hope of a cure for this plague which threatens the globe. As the only test subject that did not suffer side effects, her immunity holds the key to preventing a world wide apocalypse. Cole's mission is complicated by chaos, continual attacks by the infected, and the virus slowly overtaking Cole's body.
with

When a revolutionary performance enhancer sparks a terrifying outbreak, humanity's only hope lies with the one test subject who didn't turn into a dangerous killing machine. RAK-295 is the latest drug from N-Gen industries. It was supposed to be the next big thing, but all of the 30,000 test subjects except for Angela Mills (MyAnna Burning) experience a terrifying transformation, the drug designed to make man stronger threatens to be his undoing. Incredibly, Angela seems completely immune to the drug's devastating side effects. Upon receiving word of this hopeful anomaly, N-Gen CEO Peter White (Colin Salmon) orders battle-hardened Head of Security Cole (Craig Fairbrass) to track Angela down, and get her into the lab. Meanwhile, Angela and her boyfriend Joe (Danny Dyer) are fighting for survival on the streets. When Cole shows up determined to drag Angela back to N-Gen Corporation, the future of mankind rests in the blood of one terrified woman with no place left to run. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Devil's Playground Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 97&nbsp;mins
