Fading of the Cries is a 2011 American fantasy film written and directed by Brian Metcalf, produced by Brian Metcalf, Karoline Kautz and Thomas Ian Nicholas. It stars Brad Dourif, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Mackenzie Rosman and Elaine Hendrix.
The story tells of a young man named Jacob who defends his town from evil forces, aided by a magic sword. He saves a girl called Sarah from a hoard of the reanimated dead plaguing the farmland town. After escaping from the hoard of reanimated dead through the floor of a church Sarah meets Mathias, the evil necromancer who is behind the whole thing. It turns out that he is after an amulet that belonged to Sarah's uncle which he gave to her before he died. Sarah refuses to give him the amulet and after threatening to unleash all the evils he can conjure Mathias disappears. Sarah and Jacob are then forced to flee once again and after crossing a bridge they take refuge for the night and wait until morning to continue their journey. They then set out to get to Sarah's house safely the entire time traveling through streets, fields, churches and underground tunnels and being pursued by hordes of demonic creatures. After arriving at Sarah's home around midday Jacob and Sarah arrive to find that Mathias has arrived before them and is holding a sword to Jill's, Sarah's little sister, throat while their mother lies unconscious on the floor. Mathias offers Sarah the choice of watching her sister die or handing over the amulet. Sarah decides to hand over the amulet on the condition that Mathias let Jill go free. Mathias promises he will do so. After handing him the amulet Mathias breaks his promise and disappears with both Jill and the necklace. Sarah then begs Jacob to go save Jill from Mathias and Jacob reluctantly agrees. After arriving at Sarah's dead uncles house Jacob then has a confrontation with Mathias that ends with him destroying the amulet and saving Jill by diving through a hole in the floor and breaking their fall with his own body. At this point you find out that Jacob is unable to die due to a protection spell that Sarah's uncle cast before he died. Upon returning home however Jill and Jacob discover Sarah and Jill and Sarah's mother dead, having been killed when Jacob was not there to protect them. Jacob then leaves and returns to Sarah's uncle's house where he finds Mathias reading through his necromancer spells looking for a way to restore his power. He spots Jacob walking towards him and starts laughing saying that that it is impossible for for Jacob to kill him due to the fact that he is already dead. Jacob approaches him and says that instead of killing him he will torture Mathias for all eternity and the movie fades out with Jacob repeatedly slashing Mathias with his sword and the sounds of Mathias's screams filling the air. 204.29.160.175 (talk) 21:51, 6 February 2013 (UTC)
When the forces of darkness beset a small farming community, a young man takes up his mighty sword to protect an innocent girl and prevent her antique necklace from falling into the hands of a diabolical tyrant. Mathias (Brad Dourif) covets the necklace given to Sarah (Hallee Hirsh) by her uncle (Thomas Ian Nicholas). But Jacob (Jordan Matthews) is determined to protect Sarah. As the young pair is beset by demons, Sarah uncovers a secret that causes her to reconsider her animosity toward her sister (Mackenzie Rosman) and their mother (Elaine Hendrix). Later, as the demons close in on Jacob and Sarah, the young hero realizes he must return to the place where his life was destroyed in order to defeat Mathias once and for all. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 93&nbsp;mins
