Katy Perry: Part of Me (advertised and stylised as Katy Perry Movie: Part of Me 3D and Katy Perry The Movie: Part of Me) is a 2012 3D centering on singer Katy Perry. It was directed by Dan Cutforth and Jane Lipsitz and released in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom and Ireland on July 5, 2012.
This film tells the story of the trajectory of Perry's career as gospel singer Katheryn Hudson and her best friends Fatima and Anissa until the present day as pop singer and global superstar Katy Perry, bearing testimony from Katy about her childhood, talking about the Teenage Dream era, with scenes from backstage of her last world tour while trying to take time to resolve personal problems, including her divorce from English comedian Russell Brand. The interim scenes document her last world tour, the California Dreams Tour, and were recorded on November 23, 2011 at Staples Center, Los Angeles.
On March 7, 2012, Perry announced via Twitter that she and Paramount Pictures would release a part-biopic, part-concert film entitled Katy Perry: Part of Me in summer of 2012. Perry told MTV News that the film was the closing to the Teenage Dream era and explained what to expect, stating, "It's closing the chapter on Teenage Dream, but it's giving you such an inside perspective  This film, you're going to see it from my best friendbuddy perspective, you're going to see exactly what I mean and feel and think about everything."
One golden ticket to the movie premiere was placed in a random physical copy of Teenage Dream: The Complete Confection. The first trailer of the film was aired during the 2012 Kids' Choice Awards. On March 31, 2012, Perry announced via Twitter that the film would be released during the weekend of July 4. A trailer of the film was released on April 2, 2012 on iTunes Store worldwide. Perry teamed up with Pepsi to promote the film. The partnership included co-branded television and radio spots, digital advertising and retail displays. All elements of the campaign featured Pepsi's new global tag line, "Live for Now". The campaign offered consumers the chance to win trips to attend the world premiere of the film in Los Angeles, which included a live performance by Perry. In June 2012, Perry held the American premier in Hollywood where she shut down Hollywood Boulevard to put on a free concert. Perry also held and attended to further premieres in Sydney, Australia and London, England, where she walked the "Pink Carpet". On July 30, 2012, there was a premiere in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil with the presence of Perry.
Special RealD 3D glasses were designed and distributed in theaters. The glasses featured a white and red "candy stripe" motif common to Perry's visual style and also featured the film's official Twitter hashtag.
Footage of songs performed on the California Dreams Tour are listed below in the order they appear in the film. The list does not include songs used as background music; "Part of Me" plays over the opening montage, and "Wide Awake" during the film's end credits.
In the film and on the soundtrack, several performances of Katy's early gospel songs are shown, as is the music video for "The Box", which was a song written with Glen Ballard for Katy's unreleased album, (A) Katy Perry. Also used as background music are "Lost", "If You Can Afford Me" and "A Cup of Coffee", from Katy Perry's debut album, "Midnight City" by M83 and "Turning Japanese" by The Vapors when Katy visits Japan and clips of Japanese fans as well as her tweet consisting of the lyrics of its chorus are shown. "Ur So Gay", "Circle the Drain", and "Medley: Only Girl (In the World)Big Pimpin'Whip My Hair" did not appear in the film.
Songs list:
Review aggregate website Rotten Tomatoes reported that 77% of critics gave the film positive reviews, based on 80 reviews, with a rating average of 6.5 out of 10. At the website Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the film has received a rating average of 57, based on 24 reviews, indicating mixed to average reviews. Audiences polled by the market research firm CinemaScore gave Katy Perry: Part of Me an "A" grade on average. Neil Smith of Total Film stated, "Despite being as garish and manufactured as Perry's multi-coloured hair-don'ts, Part of Me deserves kudos for allowing an element of unpredictability to intrude upon its tween exploitation and sugary vulgarity." Elizabeth Weitzman of New York Daily News said, "Perry may be the world's most high-profile tease, but she sure knows how to show us a good time". Andrew McMurty of Filmink stated, "Ultimately, Part of Me is for fans, but it should have interest for people interested in celebrity culture".
Negative reviews included Mark Olsen of Boxoffice Magazine's claim that, "this supposedly honest behind-the-scenes look at Perry's 2011 world tour often feels more like sharp brand management". Alison Willmore of Time Out New York also gave the film a generally negative review, saying, "the 3-D performance footage is impressively lavish, though the film's unending idolization of the amiable singer will quickly exhaust all but the most devoted fans".
Commercially, Katy Perry: Part of Me has performed under expectations. In its opening weekend, the film grossed $7,138,266 in 2,730 theaters in the United States and Canada, ranking #8 at the box office. Katy Perry: Part of Me has grossed $25,326,071 domestically and $7,113,292 internationally, totaling $32,439,363 worldwide. In the United States, it is the seventh highest-grossing documentary and the fourth highest-grossing music concert film of all time.
On September 18, the DVD was released for the film, with anamorphic widescreen and full-screen versions of the movie, getting 112,296 copies in its first week, earning a profit of over one million dollars, not counting the other versions and 3D Blu-Ray currently has 208,784 copies were sold, with less than 2 months of release. 
Get to know the woman behind the pop icon as singer Katy Perry brings fans behind the scenes of her California Dreams Tour in this colorful, intimate musical documentary. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Katy Perry: Part of Me Trailers and ClipsDirector(s):Jane Lipsitz,&nbsp;Dan CutforthProducer(s):Martin Kirkup,&nbsp;Bradford Cobb,&nbsp;Brian Grazer
