Yelling to the Sky is a 2011 drama film written and directed by Victoria Mahoney. The film premiered In Competition at the 61st Berlin International Film Festival and was nominated for the Golden Bear.
A teenager struggles with a troubled family environment as she tries to make a life for herself. Sweetness O'Hara is the 17-year-old daughter of a troubled and ethnically diverse couple; her father, Gordon, who is white, is caring but suffers from violent mood swings, while her African-American mother, Lorene, struggles with severe emotional issues that lead her to abandon the household. While Sweetness is pretty and bright, she attends a school dominated by youth gangs, and she's often the target of a band of streetwise girls led by Latonya who resent her for her light skin. While her school counselor, Coleman, believes she can make something of herself, Sweetness is more interested in immediate survival than her long-term future. She allies herself with Roland, who lures her into the world of drug dealing.
The leading US industry trade paper, Variety, said of the film, "Yelling to the Sky" boasts a strong directorial voice.  Mahoney was clearly driven by a genuine creative gift, and escaped such restraints to unleash this affecting cri du coeur." 
Filmmaker Magazine named Mahoney one of the 2010 "25 New Faces of Independent Film", saying of the film, "A powerful, emotionally nuanced debut. Mahoney, who has drawn fine performances from her actors, has a sophisticated and empathetic understanding of the characters they play." 
A teenager struggles with a dysfunctional family environment as she tries to make a life for herself in this independent drama. Sweetness O'Hara (Zoe Kravitz) is the 17-year-old daughter of a troubled and ethnically diverse couple; her father (Jason Clarke), who is white, is caring but suffers from violent mood swings, while her African-American mother (Yolonda Ross) struggles with severe emotional issues and eventually abandons the household. While Sweetness is pretty and bright, she attends a school dominated by youth gangs, and she's often the target of a band of streetwise girls led by Latonya (Gabourey Sidibe), who resent her for her light skin. While her school counselor (Tim Blake Nelson) believes she can make something of herself, Sweetness is more interested in immediate survival than her long-term future, and she allies herself with Roland (Tariq Trotter), who lures her into the world of drug dealing. Yelling to the Sky is the first feature film from writer and director Victoria Mahoney. ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 95&nbsp;mins
