Your Sister's Sister is an American comedydrama film directed by Lynn Shelton. It stars Emily Blunt, Rosemarie DeWitt and Mark Duplass. It was released on June 15, 2012.
Jack, emotionally struggling a year after the death of his brother, takes up an offer from his friend (and his brother's ex girlfriend) Iris to stay at her father's isolated cabin. Once he arrives there by bicycle, Jack unexpectedly encounters Iris's sister Hannah, a lesbian who has recently broken up with her partner and has moved to the cabin without letting her family know. Although she initially attempts to attack him as a trespasser, he explains his relationship to Iris and she allows him to stay.
Later that night, he has trouble sleeping in his small bed and wanders to the kitchen to find Hannah drinking heavily alone. The pair drink together and strike up a conversation about their relationships, which progressively grows more personal until they find themselves eager for sex. With a condom supplied by Hannah, they have brief sex.
Unexpectedly, Iris suddenly arrives at the cabin the next morning. After they exchange greetings and explanations, Jack privately pleads with Hannah not mention their tryst to Iris. While at first incredulously bemused, when Iris divulges to her sister her having fallen in love with Jack, Hannah agrees with Jack that she will keep their indiscretion secret.
Later in the day, the trio strike up a friendly conversation leading to the reason behind Hannah's breakup: her desire to have a child. At that, Iris comments that Hannah could simply get a male donor to be pregnant. When Hannah and Iris decide to go for a stroll, Jack tells them he'd rather stay at the cabin "to read." During their stroll, a guilt-ridden Hannah confesses to Iris she slept with Jack, while a suspicious Jack examines the trashed condom, discovering it heavily perforated.
Jack confronts Hannah in front of Iris and she confesses that she deliberately sabotaged the condom in hopes of becoming impregnated someday. At this, Jack accuses Hannah of "stealing my sperm" and abruptly departs, leaving the sisters alone to sort out this transgression. Over time, the sisters gradually reconcile, with Iris offering her help should Hannah give birth; meanwhile, Jack's bike breaks down in a nearby town, leading him to vent his frustrations by destroying it.
Eventually, Jack returns to the cabin and requites Iris's love, also offering to help Hannah to take care of her possible baby. Hannah agrees and the trio attempt to work as a team. The film ends with Hannah taking a home pregnancy test with Iris and Jack joining her to see the result.
Your Sister's Sister garnered positive reviews and currently holds a 84% positive rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 127 reviews. Peter Travers of Rolling Stone described the film as, "a trio of superb performances guide a plot that pivots on secrets and lies before they fester. Your Sister's Sister works its way into your head until you can't stop thinking about it."
A man struggling with his feelings following a death in the family throws himself into an even more uncomfortable situation in this independent comedy-drama from filmmaker Lynn Shelton. A year after the death of his brother, Jack (Mark Duplass) is still having a hard time dealing with his loss, and when he has an emotional outburst at a family get-together, Iris (Emily Blunt) steps in to offer some help. Iris is one of Jack's closest friends and was also dating his brother at the time of his death; Iris' family has a cottage on Puget Sound, and she suggests Jack bike up there and take some time to come to terms with his troubles. Jack accepts her offer, but when he arrives at the cabin, he discovers it's occupied by Iris' sister Hannah (Rosemarie DeWitt), who is in need of some alone time after breaking up with her lover. Jack and Hannah discuss their heartache over a bottle of tequila, and end up stumbling into bed. The next morning, Iris arrives, and Jack is desperate to keep her from learning he had sex with her sister; Hannah agrees not to tell, but as she bonds with Jack, she also senses his feelings for Iris aren't as platonic as he cares to admit. Your Sister's Sister received its world premiere at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All Your Sister's Sister Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 90&nbsp;mins
