Little_Shop_of_Horrors
Released Year: 1986
Running time: 103
Director: Frank Oz
Cast: Rick Moranis,Ellen Greene,Vincent Gardenia,Steve Martin,Levi Stubbs,Tichina Arnold, Michelle Weeks, and Tisha Campbell-Martin,James Belushi,John Candy,Christopher Guest,Bill Murray,Miriam Margolyes,Stanley Jones,Mak Wilson and Danny John-Jules,
Content: It started as a 1960 Roger Corman horror comedy, filmed in two days; it then inspired a lavish 1982 Broadway musical with music and lyrics by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman. Finally in 1986, Little Shop of Horrors (1960) graduated into a multimillion-dollar, all-star film musical. Rick Moranis plays nebbishy Seymour Krelborn, who works in a rundown flower shop on Skid Row. While his boss (Vincent Gardenia) bemoans the lack of business, Seymour seeks a way of bringing the shop -- and himself -- fame and fortune. He purchases a strange plant from an even stranger oriental street vendor (Vincent Wong), naming the plant after his girlfriend Audrey (Ellen Greene, one of the few carry-overs from the Broadway version). Gradually, Seymour learns to his horror that "Audrey II" (given the voice of R&B performer Levi Stubbs) craves blood and flesh. With each of Audrey II's "FEEED MEEE"s, Seymour must scare up human food to satisfy the plant's appetite. One such victim is dentist Steve Martin, a leather-jacketed Elvis type (the dentist's ultra-masochistic patient played by Jack Nicholson in the 1960 original is here impersonated by Bill Murray). The lighthearted tone of the film darkens as Audrey II grows in monstrosity, but the unhappy ending of the Broadway version is avoided herein. 
Wiki info: 
Little Shop of Horrors is a 1986 musical comedy film directed by Frank Oz. It is a film adaptation of the off-Broadway musical comedy of the same name by composer Alan Menken and writer Howard Ashman about a nerdy florist shop worker who raises a vicious, raunchy plant that feeds on human blood. Menken and Ashman's Off-Broadway musical was based on the low-budget 1960 film The Little Shop of Horrors, directed by Roger Corman. The film stars Rick Moranis, Ellen Greene, Vincent Gardenia, with Levi Stubbs voicing Audrey II, and a special guest appearance by Steve Martin.
Little Shop of Horrors was filmed on the Albert R. Broccoli 007 Stage at the Pinewood Studios in England, where a "downtown" set, complete with overhead train track, was constructed. The film was produced on a budget of $25 million, in contrast to the original 1960 film, which, according to Corman, only cost $30,000. The film's original 23-minute finale, based on the musical's ending, was rewritten and reshot after receiving a strong negative reception from test audiences. Before it was fully restored in 2012 by Warner Home Video, the ending was never available publicly other than in the form of black-and-white workprint footage.
In September 1960, nerdy Seymour Krelborn and the beautiful, but ditzy Audrey, work at Mushnik's Flower Shop in the slums of Skid Row in New York City ("Skid Row"). After a day without a single customer, Mushnik prompts to close the store, but Audrey persuades him to let Seymour display a "strange and interesting" plant to attract customers, which Seymour has named "Audrey II". Immediately, a customer enters and asks Seymour about the plant. Seymour explains that he got the plant from an old Chinese man during an unexpected Solar eclipse ("Da-doo"). The plant successfully attracts several customers and puts the flower shop back in business. Seymour's attempts to find proper nourishment for the finicky plant are unsuccessful until he accidentally pricks his finger on a rose thorn, and discovers that Audrey II has an appetite for human blood ("Grow for Me").
Audrey II continues to grow rapidly and Seymour becomes a local celebrity. However, he becomes very weak because Audrey II needs increasingly more of his blood every day. While at work, Seymour attempts to ask Audrey out, but she turns him down because she has a date with her abusive and sadistic dentist boyfriend Orin Scrivello D.D.S.. She does, however, show interest in Seymour and even dreams of marrying him and living in a house together with children ("Somewhere That's Green"). After Seymour closes up shop, Audrey II begins to talk to Seymour, demanding more blood than Seymour can give ("Feed Me"). The plant proposes that he should murder Orin for food. In return, he offers Seymour fame and fortune, but Seymour refuses until he witnesses Orin slapping Audrey, and, enraged, agrees to feed him to the plant.
Seymour books an appointment with Orin and arms himself with a revolver, however he cannot bring himself to use it. Orin decides to amuse himself by huffing nitrous oxide, which he is addicted to. He puts on a special gas mask (which provides a constant flow of gas), which malfunctions, preventing him from removing it. He begs Seymour for help while laughing hysterically, but Seymour takes no action causing Orin to die from asphyxiation. That night, Seymour drags Orin's body back to the flower shop where he uses an axe to chop it up for Audrey II (per its demands). Mr. Mushnik witnesses Seymour's actions and flees in fear. Seymour feeds the pieces to Audrey II, who laughs with ravenous glee.
After a sleepless night, Seymour discovers the police questioning Audrey about Orin's disappearance. She says that she feels guilty about Orin's death, even though she did not cause it, because she always secretly wished that he would disappear. Seymour tells Audrey that she should forget her past troubles and should not have such low self-esteem ("Suddenly Seymour"). They admit their feelings for each other and kiss passionately. That night, Mushnik confronts Seymour and accuses him of killing Orin and threatens (at gunpoint) to hand him over to the police ("Suppertime"). Before they walk out the door, Mushnik suddenly decides to bargain with Seymour, offering him a chance to leave Skid Row if he allows Mushnik to take care of (and profit from) the plant. However, Mushnik stumbles into Audrey II's open mouth and gets eaten whole.
Seymour's fortune continues to grow and he becomes a media star, but he is very worried about Audrey II's growth and insatiable appetite ("The Meek Shall Inherit"). After hearing he will receive a large check, Seymour proposes to Audrey, and plans to leave town with her using the money, leaving the plant to starve. Audrey II catches him leaving and demands another meal; Seymour agrees, but insists on ground chuck from the local butcher, to which the stubborn plant defers. While Seymour is gone, the plant calls Audrey, coaxes her into the shop, and then tries to eat her. Seymour returns and saves her just in time. Audrey reveals to Seymour that she doesn't just like him for the plant's success, but that she liked him the day they met (reprise of "Suddenly Seymour"). Suddenly, Patrick Martin, a salesman, appears and offers Seymour a contract to breed Audrey II and make a fortune by selling the plant to families around the world. Shocked, Seymour realizes the plant's intentions, which is world domination.
Seymour goes to confront Audrey II, who then bursts out of its pot and reveals to him that it is an alien from outer space ("Mean Green Mother from Outer Space"). During the battle between the two, Audrey II collapse the shop on Seymour, supposedly killing him. However, Seymour pops his arm out of the rubble and grabs an exposed electrical wire and electrocutes Audrey II, causing it to explode. Seymour, having miraculously survived the collapse and the explosion, safely reunites with Audrey. They wed and move to the suburbs, and while they happily run towards their new home, a smiling Audrey II bud can be seen among the flowers in their front yard.
During production, director Oz shot a 23-minute ending based on the off-Broadway musical's ending. However, after receiving negative reviews from test audiences, the ending had to be rewritten and re-shot for the theatrical release with a "happier ending".
In the original ending, after Audrey is attacked by Audrey II (reprise of "Suppertime"), Seymour tells Audrey that he fed Mushnik and Orin to Audrey II and explains the whole story, then Audrey dies in Seymour's arms, but only before begging him to feed her to the plant so that Seymour will get all the fame he deserves (reprise of "Somewhere That's Green"). Seymour does so, but afterwards attempts to commit suicide by jumping off a building. Before he can, Patrick Martin appears and attempts to persuade Seymour to let him cut samples of the plant so that they can grow into little Audrey II's and be sold across America. At the same time, he shows him a miniature plant that grew from a sample he cut days earlier, which menacingly grins at Seymour. Realizing Audrey II's intentions from this, Seymour quickly slides down the ladder and returns to the flower shop, shortly before Martin tells him they don't need his consent since a plant is considered public domain. Returning to the shop, Seymour unsuccessfully attempts to confront Audrey II ("Mean Green Mother from Outer Space"), who tears down the shop, plucks Seymour out of the rubble, and eats him.
The three chorus girls appear in front of the American flag and tell how the Audrey II buds became a nationwide consumer craze , but soon, grew into an army of monstrous plants who take over the country ("Don't Feed the Plants"). In the dramatic finale, giant Audrey II buds begin destroying cities across America by knocking down buildings, blowing into the smoke stacks, and eating trains. The U.S. Army attempts to fight the Audrey II buds. The final shot shows the plants ascending upon the Statue of Liberty, and then a title card "THE END?!?" appears and Audrey II bursts through the screen, cackling.

