Lovely_Molly
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 100
Director: Eduardo Sanchez
Cast: Alexandra Holden,Johnny Lewis,Gretchen Lodge,Ken Arnold,Lauren Lakis,
Content: An ex-drug addict falls prey to the malevolent ghosts of her past after getting married and moving into her family's secluded farmhouse in the countryside in this supernatural shocker from Eduardo Sanchez, co-director of the seminal '90s horror film The Blair Witch Project . Having recently conquered her heroin addiction, pretty and strong-willed Molly (Gretchen Lodge) marries hardworking truck driver Tim (Johnny Lewis). They start a new life together in the home Molly grew up in, and everything seems idyllic until strange sounds begin emanating from deep in the house and something starts to set off their high-tech alarm system. When Tim later departs for an extended road trip, Molly begins to rapidly deteriorate, frightening her sister and raising serious concerns from her boss. Though suspicions of a relapse into drug abuse soon surface, the reality of Molly's situation is much more terrifying. An unimaginable evil dwells in Molly's home, and it won't stop until she submits to it completely. 
Wiki info: 
Lovely Molly is a 2012 horror film directed by Eduardo Sanchez. The film initially had a working title of The Possession but was later changed to Lovely Molly. The film follows newlyweds Molly and Tim as they move into Molly's childhood home, where painful memories soon begin to haunt Molly.
The film opens with a video recording of Molly apologizing for her actions and attempting to slit her throat with a knife but failing. It is important to note the date as October 16, 2011, as much of the movie is done in flashbackshints via video, all containing a time stamp along the bottom. The film proceeds with the events during the wedding of Tim (Johnny Lewis) and Molly (Gretchen Lodge) and their move into Molly's childhood home with the help of Molly's sister, Hannah (Alexandra Holden).
Although they have been in the house for over three months, the couple are startled in their sleep not long after the wedding when the alarm system buzzes. They call the police to check if someone has broken into the house, but are told to just assume it is their neighbor's kids playing around at night, as the officer finds no evidence of forced entry despite the back door unlocked and open.
Tim, who works as a truck driver, must leave town for a few days, leaving Molly, a recovering heroin addict, alone so they can make ends meet. Bored, Molly begins to explore the house via video where she discovers several things she had from her childhood including a collection of framed horses in her father's room and a hidden shrine in the barn. While in her childhood room, she hears crying from her closet, opening and finding that someone is inside, although who is not revealed. In the morning, she is discovered by Tim, naked and staring blankly into one corner in her bedroom. Tim then bathes Molly and asks what happened when she was alone, but Molly seems delusional and does not remember telling him 'He is alive.'
Over the next several days, Molly exhibits unusual behavior and begins to record a little girl and her mother who live not far from her house. One night, Molly hears a noise from the backdoor and tries to lock it, but is suddenly pushed back by an unknown force. This leaves Molly frantic and calling for the police once again. Molly begins to appear ill and exhausted, causing her sister Hannah and coworkers to become concerned. Hannah expresses worry that Molly is using again, blaming herself for a shared joint on Molly's birthday. However, Molly denies this, but her actions at home show otherwise.
One night at work, while Molly is keeping aside cleaning equipment, she hears someone whispering her name. She turns her back and a man begins to sing "Lovely Molly" quietly. The sound of horse feet are heard moving closer to Molly and the scene ends when Molly walks towards the voice. The next day, she is privately summoned by her boss, where he shows Molly the surveillance camera to the spot where she was the other day. It shows Molly pulling down her pants and being sexually assaulted by an unknown force. Unable to provide an explanation, Molly becomes hysterical and is sent home with her sister.
As her stay at the house lengthens, Molly's condition turns even worse, continuing erratic behaviors and video taping the girl and her family and at one point filming and talking to a dead deer. She is both terrified and spontaneous, leading her actions to cause debate as to if she is losing control mentally or under the influence of drugs or possession. Her sister demands to come stay, but she states that 'Pastor Bobby' will come visit. The visit does not go well, however, as she exhibits an attitude far from normal and attempts to seduce the pastor. He leaves in a rush, but it is unclear of what happened.
Fearing for her safety, Tim takes Molly to the doctor, but is advised she is healthy physically. Prescribed sleep aides, Tim is assured they will calm her. That night, she takes the pills and soon dozes off in front of the TV where Tim leaves her and heads to bed. She is awoken, however, and finds a screwdriver under the bed. Tim awakens to her screams and she insists 'he' has returned and is coming for her up the stairs. Tim nor the viewer can see anything, causing her evidence to be undermined. She hides in the closet, but Tim bursts in, promising to protect her. The couple embrace and kiss passionately, but she suddenly begins to bite his lips, pulling them nearly off before fleeing.
Terrified, Tim calls Hannah, who begs that they do not call the police, saying that her last stay in a hospital was tumultuous and frightening for her. Instead, Hannah urges him to seek medical care and leave Molly to her. Finding Molly in the woods, the girls return to the house where secrets of the girls past are discovered along with the source of the foul stench lingering in the house. In the basement, Molly has been keeping a rotting deer, which she stabs repeatedly, screaming at Hannah and telling her that their father told her how Hannah killed him when they were young. Although she initially denies this, Hannah then claims that she was just protecting herself and Molly from their father. While Molly appears calm, Hannah put her to bed and begs her to come stay with her and her son Peter. Molly refuses and then begins giggling, saying that if she does they'll be hurt and she will gut Peter 'from belly to throat.' Fearing her fully for the first time, Hannah flees.
More video is shown, spying on the young girl's family, for the first time focusing on the mother rather than the girl. The video pans and a distraught Tim sits with her on the couch. While no words are heard, it is clear they are familiar, and as they move closer, the mother begins kissing Tim before performing oral sexual acts. A car pulls up the drive in the rain and it is revealed to be Pastor Bobby rather than Tim. Molly emerges from the house naked and the two embrace. The next scene reveals a calm Molly standing from bed and dressing, going into the bathroom. As the camera pans, Pastor Bobby lays in the bath, clearly dead and covered in blood and bites. The screwdriver is firmly implanted in the back of his skull. A phone call is placed to Hannah, apologizing and revealing that Pastor Bobby is at the location. She blames her father and tells Hannah she loves her.
Hannah having returned home, Tim goes back to the house. As he drives closer, cops are seen around a neighbor's home. Fearing the worst, he asks what is happening, only to be rebuffed by an officer who says 'someone has been reported missing, please return home.' Tim finds the house empty, but the video camera left playing on the bed. It is the recording of himself with the mother and before he can react, Molly strikes him across the head with a bat. Dragging him downstairs, he slowly regains consciousness, apologizing to her for his actions and telling her he loves her. She kisses him, seemingly calm and loving before rolling him over and forcing the screwdriver into his skull, killing him.
Another video edit shows the police in the woods digging, pulling away to reveal the body of the young girl. The mother sobs, and Molly slips away. Afterwards, Molly lies naked and sobbing on the floor until her attitude abruptly changes and she shows a half smile. She walks out of the backdoor naked towards a figure that is demonic with glowing eyes, a horse head and body of a man. A frighting and physical representation of her descent into insanity and evil, it caresses a trembling Molly.
In the aftermath, the couple's house is up for sale. Hannah enters the empty rooms, walking through carefully and apprehensively. There is no clear answer as to Molly's ending, but time has clearly past. In their old bedroom, she finds the family photo album on the floor. Flipping though the pages, she notices their father's face has been covered with horse heads from his frame collection. Hearing a noise from the closet, she opens it and in a trance-like state reaches her arm towards something unseen, similar to Molly's discovery earlier.

