Dark_Tide
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 114
Director: John Stockwell
Cast: Halle Berry – Kate Mathieson,Olivier Martinez – Jeff Mathieson,Ralph Brown – Brady Ross,Luke Tyler – Nate Hadley,Mark Elderkin – Tommy Phillips,Sizwe Msutu – Walter,Thoko Ntshinga – Zukie,
Content: Oscar winner Halle Berry stars as a shark expert who accepts a lucrative business offer, only to become stranded in "Shark Alley" and hunted by nature's most dangerous predator in this deep-sea thriller from director John Stockwell (Blue Crush, Into the Blue). Kate (Berry) earned the nickname the "Shark Whisperer" for her remarkable ability to bond with some of the most feared creatures on the planet. But when Kate witnesses one of her fellow divers getting killed during a brutal shark attack, the resulting trauma renders her incapable of braving the ocean depths. Meanwhile, the bank threatens to foreclose on Kate's boat and it begins to look as if her career has become stranded ashore. Kate soon gets the opportunity to settle her debts, however, when her ex Jeff (Olivier Martinez) introduces her to a wealthy entrepreneur who's willing to pay a lot of money to experience the thrill of swimming with sharks, sans cage. Reluctantly, Kate agrees to lead the dive. But shortly after steering their boat into Shark Alley, all of her greatest fears begin to come true. 
Wiki info: 
Dark Tide is a 2012 American action thriller film directed by John Stockwell, produced by Jeanette Buerling and Matthew E. Chausse and written by Ronnie Christensen and Amy Sorlie. The film is based on a story by Amy Sorlie and stars Halle Berry, Olivier Martinez, and Ralph Brown.
Kate is a shark expert whose business has been failing since a shark attack killed a fellow diver under her command. Once dubbed "the shark whisperer," Kate is haunted by the memory of the attack and unable to get back into the water. With bills piling up and the bank about to foreclose on Kate's boat, Kate's ex-boyfriend Jeff presents her with a lucrative opportunity to lead a thrill-seeking millionaire businessman on a dangerous shark dive – outside the cage. Battling her self-doubts and fear, Kate accepts the proposal and sets a course for the world's deadliest feeding ground – Shark Alley

