Grave_Encounters_2
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 98
Director: The Vicious Brothers
Cast: Richard Harmon,Leanne Lapp,Sean Rogerson,Dylan Playfair,Stephanie Bennett,Howie Lai,Sean Tyson,Ben Wilkinson,Arthur Corber,Brenda McDonald,Collin Minihan & Stuart Ortiz,
Content: A researcher investigating the case of the film crew that vanished while exploring Collingwood Psychiatric Hospital receives a disturbing video that promises to answer all of his most pressing questions -- if it doesn't prove the death of him first -- in this shocking supernatural sequel. Upon receiving a clip that appears to show a still-living Sean Rogerson trapped somewhere deep in the bowels of the notorious asylum, Alex Wright (Richard Harmon) agrees to meet enigmatic blogger "DeathAwaits666" at Collingwood, and brings along a few friends to document their excursion. Shortly after arriving at the hospital, however, Alex and his friends realize they will soon meet the same grim fate as Sean and his crew unless they use their knowledge of the previous events to escape the nightmare that's fast closing in. 
Wiki info: 
Grave Encounters 2 is a 2012 Canadian-American horror film, directed by John Poliquin, written by The Vicious Brothers and the sequel to the 2011 film Grave Encounters. It is shot in found footage style like its predecessor and follows a group of devoted fans who break into the same psychiatric hospital to investigate whether the events of the previous film actually happened, quickly becoming the targets of the hospital's malevolent entities. The film was released on iTunes on October 2, 2012 and received a limited theatrical release on October 12, 2012. Grave Encounters 2 became a commercial success, but was a critical failure.
This film is about a film student (Alex Wright) and his group of friends as they are producing a film about the original Grave Encounters movie. Alex believes that the first film was real. In his search to find the truth he finds out that the original people from the first movie have all either gone missing or have died. So Alex does research to try and find out the complete truth. He and his friends then head off to Canada after receiving an email from a source (DeathAwaits666) asking him to go to the Hospital where the first movie was filmed as they're going to "help" with the research. After they arrive they set up their cameras and settle in. only to find that they are not the only occupants. They quickly find that there is more to this place than they had ever imagined. Alex and his friends later find Lance from the first film and Lance has found a way to get out but "uses them" to get out himself. Alex then realizes that only one person can survive and make it out alive. He kills Lance and Jennifer and collects the tapes and escapes himself so he is then the only one who survives.

