Fright_Night
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 106
Director: Craig Gillespie
Cast: Anton Yelchin,Colin Farrell,David Tennant,Toni Collette,Imogen Poots,Christopher Mintz-Plasse,Dave Franco,Chris Ranney,Reid Ewing,Sandra Vergara,Will Denton,Emily Montague,Lisa Loeb,Brian Huskey,Grace Phipps,Chelsea Tavares,Eb Lottimer,
Content: A suburban Las Vegas teenager realizes that his new neighbor is a charismatic vampire in this remake of the 1985 horror comedy hit. After years of climbing to reach the top of the social ladder, high school senior Charley Brewster (Anton Yelchin) finally rules the roost. Just as Charley ditches his best pal, "Evil" Ed (Christopher Mintz-Plasse), and starts dating the most popular girl in their class, however, a handsome new face appears in the neighborhood. It belongs to Charley's new neighbor Jerry (Colin Farrell), an outwardly amiable guy with a quick smile and a sharp wit. But when Ed vanishes without a trace andCharley sees a side of Jerry that everyone else seems to miss, the nouveau popular teen becomes convinced that the nice-guy act is a cover for something truly sinister. Unable to convince his mother (Toni Collette) that Jerry is a genuine bloodsucker, Charley turns to Las Vegas magician Peter Vincent (David Tennant) to help exterminate the demon before he drinks the entire neighborhood dry. 
Wiki info: 
Fright Night is a 2011 3D comedy horror film directed by Craig Gillespie. It is a remake of Tom Holland's 1985 film of the same name. The film had its premiere at The O2 in London on August 14, 2011, and was widely released on August 19 in Real D 3D.
Charley Brewster (Anton Yelchin) is a teenager living in a suburb of Las Vegas, Nevada, who discovers that a new neighbor has moved in next door to him. Charley's former best friend, "Evil" Ed Lee (Christopher Mintz-Plasse), informs him that many fellow students have gone missing. When Charley goes home after school, his mother (Toni Collette) introduces him to Jerry Dandrige (Colin Farrell), their new neighbor. Charley becomes fed up with Ed after he claims that Jerry is a vampire. On his way home, Ed is confronted by Jerry, who bites him. The next day, Charley realizes that Ed is missing and decides to investigate.
As Jerry begins to attack more people throughout the neighborhood, Charley sneaks into Jerry's house and finds out that he keeps his victims in secret rooms. Charley goes to Las Vegas magician Peter Vincent (David Tennant), a supposed expert on vampires. Peter doesn't take him seriously, and kicks him out.
Jerry comes to Charley's house and sets fire to it. Charley, his mother, and his girlfriend, Amy Peterson (Imogen Poots), barely escape with their lives, fleeing through the desert in their minivan. Jerry catches up with them, but is wounded by Charley's mother (with a real estate sign stake).
Charley's mother is admitted to a hospital, where Charley is summoned by Peter. Upon arriving at Peter's penthouse, Jerry and Ed, now a vampire, attack Charley, Amy, and Peter. Charley reluctantly kills Ed, while Amy injures Jerry with holy water. They then run into a club, where they get separated in the crowd. Amy is kissed and bitten by Jerry. Jerry then takes her.
Peter refuses to help Charley and reveals that both of his parents were killed by a vampire (later revealed to be Jerry himself). He does, however, give Charley a stake blessed by Saint Michael that will kill Jerry and turn all of his victims back into humans. Charley goes to Jerry's house where Peter decides to join him after all.
They are led into Jerry's basement, where they are attacked by many of Jerry's victims, now vampires, including Amy. Charley, having outfitted himself in a flame-retardant suit, lights himself on fire in order to burn and disorient Jerry while he tries to stake him. Peter assists him by shooting a hole in the floor above to allow sunlight in which burns Jerry, then tossing Charley the stake which Charley dropped. Charley quickly stabs Jerry in the heart, killing him and returning his victims to their human form. Afterwards, Charley's mother recovers from the hospital and goes to shop for a new house as Charley and Amy make love in Peter's penthouse.

