Paranormal_Activity_3
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 83
Director: Henry Joost
Cast: Chris Smith,Lauren Bittner,Chloe Csengery,Katie Featherston,Jessica Tyler Brown,Sprague Grayden,Hallie Foote,Dustin Ingram,Johanna Braddy,Brian Boland,
Content: The Paranormal Activity franchise continues with this third outing from Paramount Pictures. Oren Peli and Jason Blum return to produce the highly secretive feature, with Catfish's directing duo of Henry Joost and Ariel Schulman taking on the helming duties. 
Wiki info: 
Paranormal Activity 3 is a 2011 American supernatural horror film, directed by Henry Joost and Ariel Schulman. It is the third film of the Paranormal Activity series and serves as a prequel, mostly set 18 years prior to the events of the first two films. It was released in theaters on October 21, 2011.
The film broke financial records upon release, setting a new record for a midnight opening for a horror film ($8 million), the best opening day for a horror film in the United States ($26.2 million), the highest opening for any film in October, highest opening for a film in the fall (September–October), and setting a record opening for the franchise ($52.6 million).
In 2005, Katie delivers a box of old videotapes to her pregnant sister Kristi, and her husband Daniel. A year later, Kristi and Daniel's house is ransacked and the tapes are missing.
The tapes hold footage of a young Katie and Kristi with their mother Julie, and her boyfriend Dennis, in 1988. Kristi begins interacting with an invisible friend named Toby. Dennis notices that since Kristi's friend appeared, strange things have been happening in the house. Dennis and Julie try to make a sex tape, but are interrupted by an earthquake. The camera shows dust fall from the ceiling and land onto an invisible figure in the room. While reviewing the footage, Dennis notices the strange incident. His friend Randy suggests that Dennis place cameras throughout the house to capture any other incidents. That night in the girls' bedroom, Kristi wakes up and talks to someone off-camera. When Dennis questions her the following day, Kristi tells him it was Toby. After more strange occurrences, Dennis discovers a strange symbol in the girls' closet. He finds the same symbol in a book about demonology.
When Kristi falls ill, Julie and Dennis take her to the hospital. Katie is left home with Randy, and they play Bloody Mary in the girls' bathroom. When nothing happens, Katie insists they try again. Randy is attacked and discovers a large scratch on his torso. They try to leave the bathroom but a black figure moves past the door. When they try to leave a second time, furniture is violently flung across the room. After Julie and Dennis return, Randy hurriedly leaves, stating that whatever they're dealing with is dangerous. Dennis tells Julie that the symbol belonged to a witches' coven that brainwashed girls of child-bearing age into having sons, forcing them to give up their sons; they would not remember anything afterward. Julie dismisses his claim, instead arguing with Dennis.
The invisible demon terrorizes Katie and Kristi, harming Katie until Kristi agrees to do what it asks. The next day, Kristi asks her mother to take them to her grandmother Lois's home, but she refuses. After Julie encounters frightening activity herself, she agrees to go to Lois's home. Dennis sets up another camera in their new bedroom. At 1am, they are woken and hear disturbances. Julie goes to investigate; when she fails to return, Dennis goes to look for her.
He calls for Julie and the girls but there is no answer. Downstairs, Dennis notices a human silhouette behind a curtain, but when he looks there, no one is present. He finds strange imagery on the walls, including the symbol from the girls' room, which had been concealed behind paintings. Dennis enters the garage and discovers several women, including Lois, all dressed in dark clothing. He flees back to the house, with the women in slow pursuit. In the house, he finds Julie at the top of the stairs. As he approaches, he sees that her limp body is levitating above the floor. Her body is thrown at Dennis, knocking him down the stairs. He gets up and sees Kristi, hiding with her in a closet. Something growls and bangs on the door, but eventually leaves.
Dennis and Kristi leave the closet and walk through the kitchen. In the window, Dennis sees the women outside in the garden, circling around a bonfire. They find Katie crying by the stairs near Julie's body. Dennis approaches Katie from behind, and places his hand on her shoulder. Katie turns and unleashes a demonic scream that throws him to the other side of the room, injuring his leg. Katie flees and Dennis tries to crawl toward Julie's body. Lois blocks him, and Dennis's body is suddenly violently contorted, snapping backwards, killing him. Lois then beckons to Kristi and Katie. As they head upstairs together, Kristi calls to Toby to come join them. The camera goes static and cuts to black.

