The_Dead
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 105
Director: Howard J. Ford
Cast: 
Content: An American Air Force engineer survives a plane crash while trying to flee the zombie apocalypse in Africa, and battles the living dead alongside a local military man. Lieutenant Brian Murphy (Rob Freeman) was on his way back home when his airplane went down in a region where no human could possibly survive. Determined to make it back to his family despite the arduous journey that lies ahead, Lieutenant Murphy forges on through the sun-scorched landscape and eventually crosses paths with Sergeant Daniel Dembele (Prince David Osei), who lost his son after their village was overrun by flesh eaters. Now, despite the cultural barriers between them, these two desperate men will be forced to rely on each other for survival if they ever hope to escape this infernal hell on earth, and make it back to their families. 
Wiki info: 
The Dead is a 2010 zombie horror film produced by Indelible Productions in association with Latitude Films and starring Rob Freeman, Prince David Osei, and David Donton. The film was directed by the Ford brothers.
Brian Murphy (Freeman), a United States Army engineer, is the sole survivor of a plane crash somewhere off the coast of Africa. The previous night, a zombie horde had attacked many villages in that location. Murphy finds and fixes a broken-down truck at a village he stops at. After driving a short distance, the truck gets stuck in mud and Murphy finds himself surrounded by zombies. Just before he can be eaten alive, an African soldier named Daniel (Osei) – whose wife was killed in the attacks of the previous night, and whose son has since gone missing – rescues him. Daniel had deserted from the army to return to his village. Daniel, in exchange for Murphy's truck, which he hoped to use to search for his son, agrees to lead Murphy to the nearest airport, which is a day's drive. Murphy attempts to signal help using the air traffic tower's radio, but receives no response. Though Murphy was not rescued, he and Daniel were able to get gas for the truck, which had run out on the way to the airport. The two set off for a military survival colony elsewhere in Africa where Daniel expects to find his son. They rest for a night at a villagesurvival colony, and head out the next morning. While driving through the African plains, the truck hits a tree and breaks its axle. Brian and Daniel set out on foot, and that night both asleep around a fire. Brian wakes up to zombies surrounding the site, and to see Daniel being bitten. They shoot their way out of the attack, but Daniel dies soon after. Brian sets out on his own to reach the survival colony. Eventually he does reach the colony and is able to reach a fellow military officer, Frank Greaves, at a US military base in Henderson, Nevada It is revealed that the infection has spread around the world and the United States has become just as bad off as Africa. When Brian asks about his family he is told that "they're gone". After hearing this, the walls around the colony are overrun and all of the survivors are eaten. At the last moment, Brian is reunited with Daniel's son, who gives him a necklace that Daniel always wore, and they hold hands and face the horde. It is implied that they are either killed or fightsurvive, while the credits begin rolling.

