Smiley
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 95
Director: Michael J. Gallagher
Cast: Caitlin Gerard,Melanie Papalia,Shane Dawson,Andrew James Allen,Liza Weil,Toby Turner,Roger Bart,Keith David,Michael Traynor,Nikki Limo,Jason Horton,Bree Essrig,Steve Greene,Michael Gallagher (cameo),Shanna Malcolm (2 cameos),
Content: A young woman tests the urban legend about a murderous maniac who can be conjured from the Internet, and begins to fear that her sanity is slipping away in this slasher thriller starring Magic Mike's Caitlin Gerard. Somewhere in the deepest recesses of the World Wide Web, a killer waits to strike. Ashley (Gerard) thought Smiley was nothing more than an online myth. But Smiley is real, and he won't rest until she's proven wrong in a pool of her own blood. Roger Bart, Keith David, and Liza Weil co-star. 
Wiki info: 
Smiley is a psychological slasher film directed by Michael Gallagher and made by Level 10 Films. The film stars Caitlin Gerard, Melanie Papalia, Shane Dawson, Andrew James Allen, Toby Turner and Liza Weil. The film was released on October 12, 2012.
A teenager. Stacy (Nikki Limo) is told the story of Smiley, an internet urban legend. Stacy gets mysteriously and violently killed while chatting with a stranger online.
Ashley (Caitlin Gerard) and Proxy (Melanie Palatial) move into a house together. After getting acquainted they go to a party hosted by Zane (Andrew James Allen), an internet hacker, and Binder (Shane Dawson). At the party Ashley hears the story of Smiley and doubts its reality. The next day Ashley and Proxy decide to try the Smiley test by typing "I did it for the lulz" three times in a video chat with a random user named Flasher (Jason Horton). Flasher gets mysteriously murdered. The girls are terrified but decide not to report the incident to the police.
Days later Proxy and Ashley attend another party and Ashley asks for more information about Smiley. Intoxicated, she runs into Smiley, who teases her and rips her dress. She wakes up the next morning in her bed. She tells Proxy what happened, but Proxy dismisses it as a dream. They visit Zane, who tells them that, despite his ability to retrieve most information on the web he has no clue as to what's happening. She decides to leave, but while walking home Zane pulls her away and confronts her about what she did.
Terrified and paranoid, Ashley tries to convince Proxy of what is happening, but her roommate leaves. She goes to one of her college professors, Clayton (Roger Bart), who scares her further. She tries to get help from a cop, Diamond (Keith David), who thinks she's crazy and shrugs her off. She goes to Zane’s house and is shocked to find him dead. Ashley grabs Zane's gun just as Smiley appears and chases her until Smiley loses track of Ashley.
Back at her house Ashley shoots at an intruding figure, only to discover it’s Binder. She tries to help him, but Smiley comes in and slashes his throat. Smiley chases her upstairs to her room, where she finds other Smiley killers. Backed to a window,and she jumps. Zane, Flasher, and others presumably killed by Smiley are revealed wearing smiley costumes. Binder tells them that Smiley is alive and that many others are copying him. The film ends with Zane talking to Proxy via video chat. Then Smiley appears on the video and kills her.
In a post credits scene, Ashley opens her eyes and gasps, showing that she is still alive.

