Chernobyl_Diaries
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 86
Director: Brad Parker
Cast: Jesse McCartney,Jonathan Sadowski,Devin Kelley,Olivia Taylor Dudley,Nathan Phillips,Ingrid Bolsø Berdal,Dimitri Diatchenko,
Content: An extreme vacation turns terrifying when a group of friends visit the Chernobyl disaster site, and learn that some nightmares never die. Conceived and produced by Paranormal Activity's Oren Peli, Chernobyl Diaries gets underway as six thrill-seeking tourists hire a fearless tour guide, and travel to the abandoned Ukrainian city of Pripyat. Back when the Chernobyl nuclear reactor was up and running, Pripyat was the place the workers called home. But 25 years after one of the worst power-plant accidents in history, the city serves as an eerily silent testament to the dangers of nuclear power. Later, after getting unexpectedly stranded in Pripyat, the tourists and their guide realize they are being hunted. Now the harder they try to flee, the faster their numbers dwindle until only a few are left standing. Only then will the unspeakable terror that stalks these deserted streets finally emerge from the shadows to launch one last relentless, terrifying attack. 
Wiki info: 
Oren Peli
Chernobyl Diaries is a 2012 American horror film which stars Jesse McCartney, Jonathan Sadowski, Devin Kelley, Olivia Taylor Dudley, Nathan Phillips, Ingrid Bolsø Berdal, and Dimitri Diatchenko. The film, which was co-produced and directed by Bradley Parker (as well as being produced by Oren Peli), uses the real-life 1986 Chernobyl disaster for its backdrop. It was shot on location in Hungary and Serbia.
A group of young adults, Chris (Jesse McCartney), his girlfriend Natalie (Olivia Taylor Dudley), and their mutual friend Amanda (Devin Kelley), are traveling across Europe, visiting Paris, Rome, Prague and London. They stop in Kiev, Ukraine, to visit Chris's brother, Paul (Jonathan Sadowski), who lives there, before heading on to Moscow, where Chris intends to propose to Natalie.
After a night on the town, Paul suggests they go for an "extreme tour" of the abandoned town of Pripyat which sits in the shadow of Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant, deserted since the events. They arrive at the local tourist agency, where they are greeted by Yuri (Dimitri Diatchenko), their tour guide and Paul's friend. They are joined by a backpacking couple, Norwegian Zoe (Ingrid Bolsø Berdal) and Australian Michael (Nathan Phillips). Yuri drives them through the wilds of Ukraine, before they arrive at the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone checkpoint, where they are refused entry by Ukrainian military. Yuri tells them that the checkpoint is closed for some maintenance, but he sneaks them in through a gap; an abandoned checkpoint he discovered years ago.
Along the way, they stop at a river where they discover a large, mutated fish. The friends are worried about radiation poisoning, but Yuri assures their safety with a Geiger counter he carries with himself. After spending a few hours exploring the abandoned city, including the gymnasium and its infamous Ferris wheel, which, explained by Yuri, was never opened. Yuri takes them to the upper floor of an apartment building and shows them the Chernobyl arc reactor no. 4 in the far horizon, the reactor that exploded 26 years ago and caused the events.
As the group prepares to leave,Yuri hears a sound in the apartments and looks around. After a brief moment of silence a large brown bear comes through the corridor and runs through the front door, where a dead dog lies on the steps. The group leaves and Yuri finds the wires in his van have been chewed through and tries to contact the military for help, to no avail. As night falls, noises are heard outside, and Yuri and Chris go out to investigate. Shots are heard and Paul runs out, only to return with Chris whose leg has been severely mauled, seemingly by dogs, and Yuri is killed.
The next day, Paul, Michael, and Amanda go looking for Yuri. They follow a trail of blood to find Yuri's mutilated body in an underground reactor complex. They take his gun and return to the van. While the group argues about who stays behind with Chris, Amanda checks the camera. She finds a picture she took the previous day showing a creature inside one of the apartment buildings. It is decided for Chris and Natalie to stay behind while the others go for help.
Paul, Amanda, Michael and Zoe return to the main road where they find dogs mauling a body. They sneak in to the parking lot to find replacement parts for the van. They come across an abandoned bus with bullet holes which appears to have been shot though from inside. They find parts for the van. but are forced to run when the dogs find them. The dogs chase the group until they reach the lake. While crossing the lake, Michael falls in and is attacked by the fish. Night falls as the group returns to the van, only to find it ripped to shreds and flipped over. Natalie's video camera reveals that she and Chris were taken by mutants. While searching for the two, the group is chased by more mutants.
During their escape, a traumatized Natalie is found and rescued, but when the group gets distracted, Natalie is again captured. The rest of the group is then swarmed by a horde of mutants. While retreating to a fallout shelter, Michael is captured. As they continue, they come upon Chris' engagement ring for Natalie, with no sign of Chris. They start to climb a ladder and a gang of mutants pull Zoe back down, forcing Amanda and Paul to leave her behind.
Paul and Amanda continue through the fallout shelter, emerging right to the reactor. As they navigate the reactor, Paul recognizes that extremely high radiation levels are causing their skin to blister. As they move forward they come upon Natalie's body. They manage to find their way out of the reactor, but are confronted by Ukrainian military personnel. Blinded (his eyes were burned) from radiation poisoning, Paul tries to approach the soldiers, who shoot him dead.
Amanda passes out and later awaken on a gurney. Several doctors, in protective hazmat suits, inform her that she is in a hospital. Talking among themselves, the doctors reveal that the "creatures" were escaped patients who had been recaptured. With the other Americans dead, they decide that Amanda knows too much, and can't be allowed to leave. Amanda is thrown into a dark cell, says who's there and she is attacked by the creatures, as the doctor closes the door.

