Saint
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 88
Director: Dick Maas
Cast: Huub Stapel,Egbert Jan Weeber,Madelief Blanken,Caro Lenssen,Escha Tanihatu,Niels van den Berg,Bert Luppes,Cynthia Abma,Kees Boot,Joey van der Valden,Jim Deddes,
Content: You better watch out, because Saint Nick is coming town and he has some scores to settle in this horror story from the Netherlands. It's December, and Dutch youngsters are awaiting the arrival of Sinterklaas, aka St. Nicholas, who brings gifts to children who have been good all year. Meanwhile, Sophie (Escha Tanihatu) is a teenage girl who uses a letter from Sinterklaas as a way to beak the news to her unfaithful boyfriend Frank (Egbert-Jan Weeber) that they're over, and classmate Lisa (Caro Lenssen) makes some pocket money babysitting as the adults party and Frank impersonates one of Sinterklaas's helpers at a celebration for children. However, Goert (Bert Luppes), a local police officer, knows something the kids don't -- Sinterklaas is real and has a nasty disposition, rising each year to wreck bloody revenge for an act of terrible violence centuries before. Sint (aka Saint) received its North American premiere at the 2011 Tribeca Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
Sint (released on DVD as Saint Nick in the United States) is a 2010 Dutch dark comedy horror film about Sinterklaas, a character comparable to Santa Claus in English-speaking countries. The film was directed by Dick Maas; in a return to the horror genre of his earlier movies De Lift (1983) and Amsterdamned (1988). The story distorts the popular traditions of Sinterklaas and portrays him as a ghost who murders large numbers of people when his annual celebration night coincides with a full moon.
On 5 December 1492, a gang led by former bishop Niklas is killed by villagers who refuse to put up with the gang's looting and killing any longer. In years in which the gang's death date coincides with a full moon, they return as murderous ghosts.
The public is unaware of this and annually celebrates the Sinterklaas tradition on 5 December, with adults not believing that Sinterklaas exists but making little children believe that he is benevolent. The Zwarte Pieten are not black by race but as a result of the fire in which they were killed. Niklas' crosier has sharp edges and is a weapon. On 5 December Sinterklaas and the Zwarte Pieten do not stand out, as many people are dressed like them for the celebration.
The last time the ghostly gang returned was in 1968. Hundreds of people were killed, including the whole family of a little boy, Goert, who is now a police officer. The authorities downplay the incidents, and they, as well as the Roman Catholic Church, keep the possible involvement of Niklas a secret.
Since there is a full moon on 5 December 2010, Goert is very concerned, and recommends forbidding all Sinterklaas activities and increasing surveillance, but he is not taken seriously and sent on leave.
As Goert predicted, the gang returns, and kills hundreds of people. While the gang is immune to bullets, they are finally chased away by fire. In addition to Goert, the student Frank also plays a heroic role in the film.

