Excision
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 81
Director: Richard Bates, Jr.
Cast: AnnaLynne McCord,Traci Lords,Ariel Winter,Roger Bart,Jeremy Sumpter,Malcolm McDowell,Matthew Gray Gubler,Marlee Matlin,Ray Wise,John Waters,
Content: A surgery-obsessed teen struggles with her outcast status while plotting to lose her virginity and save her sister from the ravaging effects of cystic fibrosis in this genre-bending shocker from writerdirector Richard bates, Jr. Pauline (Annalynne McCord) is a pretty young girl whose penchant for picking scabs has escalated into a fanatical obsession with the flesh. Recognizing this, Pauline's stern mother insists that the young girl visit the church therapist for counseling. Incensed at the prospect of being judged by a religious hypocrite, Pauline only delves deeper into her visceral fantasies while concocting an ingenious plan to impress her mother. Meanwhile, as Pauline begins devising ways to combat her younger sister's cystic fibrosis, her adolescent hormones kick into overdrive. Traci Lords and John Waters co-star. 
Wiki info: 
Excision is a 2012 American comedy horror film written and directed by Richard Bates, Jr, and starring AnnaLynne McCord, Traci Lords, Ariel Winter, Roger Bart, Jeremy Sumpter, Malcolm McDowell, Matthew Gray Gubler, Marlee Matlin, Ray Wise, and John Waters. The film is a feature-length adaptation of the 2008 short film of the same name. Excision premiered at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival. Excision played in the category of Park City at Midnight.
The film depicts the life of a disturbed and delusional high school student, Pauline, with aspirations of a career in medicine and the extremes to which she goes to earn the approval of her controlling mother. She fantasizes performing surgery on the other students. Pauline has a younger sister named Grace that has cystic fibrosis. She has vivid dreams about herself and others being mutilated with excessive amounts of blood. She has decided to lose her virginity to a boy named Adam. She explains to Adam what she wants and gives him her number. Because of her fascination with blood she arranges their meeting while she is on her period. While having an orgasm she imagines the bed filling with blood and flying through the air. At the end she asks Adam to go down on her, which he obliges. After a few minutes he runs to the bathroom disgusted by the blood (he was unaware she was on her period). During sex class, Pauline takes a sample of her blood and puts it under the microscope to check for STDs. Later on she sees Adam on the bleachers with his girlfriend. She tells Adam she doesn't have any STDs and asks his girlfriend if she has any. The girlfriend states no and Pauline informs them that if the girlfriend doesn't have anything neither will she. After she walks away the girlfriend deduces that Adam was unfaithful.
Across the street from Pauline and Grace is a teenage girl that jumps rope in her drive way. Pauline invited the girl to jumprope with her, but the girl found Pauline weird and refused. Grace defends her sister and pulls Pauline from their front yard. Adam's now ex-girlfriend and her friends toilet paper Pauline's house and spray paint cunt and whore on it. Pauline, on an angry tirade at school, pushes Adam to the ground and slams his ex-girlfriend's face into her locker. She gets expelled from school. While in her room she overhears her parents saying Grace's doctor wants her on the lung transplant list. During dinner that night her sister has a coughing fit that concerns her parents. In the morning the mother leaves and the father stays home. Pauline drugs her father with tea and he falls asleep. She ties him up and gags him. Pauline then lures the jump roping girl to the backyard under the false promise that there are several jump ropes she can have that Grace can no longer use because of her lungs. She places a cloth over her mouth and after a struggle the girl loses consciousness. Pauline talks to Grace and lovingly strokes her hair. She states that Grace maybe confused by what is going to happen but she has her best interest in mind. She drugs Grace with the same cloth. She cuts and then shaves her hair. In the garage, Pauline has cut open both girls and continues with her surgery, moving the healthy girl's lungs into her sister and placing the other lungs on ice. She sews them up. Pauline's mother arrives home and sees her husband tied up. She runs through the house screaming for Grace. She finds Pauline with the bodies. Pauline explains that it is her first surgery and it is wonderful. She had extra time so she played with the sewing on the jump roping girl. Pauline's mother screams and holds her, looking on in horror.

