The_Open_Door
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 94
Director: Doc Duhame
Cast: Catherine Munden - Angelica (as Catherine Georges),Sarah Christine Smith - Staci,Ryan Doom - Owen,Daniel Booko - Spike,Mike Dunay - Brad,Guy Wilson - Jerry,Jacob Head - Jimmy,Ian Kitzmiller - Scott,Jessica Anne Osekowsky - Heather,Kate Enggren - Angelica's Mom,Clint Carmichael - Angelica's Dad,
Content: A mysterious pirate radio host with the power to grant wishes wrecks havoc on a group of high school teenagers caught up in the cut-throat race for popularity. Angelica (Cathrine Georges) is a pretty but naïve high school senior who has recently fallen under the spell of Staci (Sarah Christine Smith), a popular girl whose bad influence is beginning to rub off on her. Meanwhile, as her parents voice their concerns about the friendship, Angelica starts to develop a major crush on friendly football player Brad (Mike Dunay). But charismatic Owen (Ryan Doom) is determined to have Angelica all to himself. With the full moon lighting up the night sky and football frenzy kicking into overdrive, Angelica gets grounded by her parents, and toys with the temptation to sneak out and party with her friends. She's convinced that Brad is bound to hook-up with bad girl Heather, and in desperation she phones in to the pirate radio program to ask the host for advice. Much to her surprise, Angelica is informed by the Oracle that everything will work out in the end. But Owen's mischievous pal Spike (Daniel Booko) has just learned that Angelica is all alone in her house for the night, and when the boys stop by to play an elaborate prank on their credulous classmate, all hell breaks loose. 
Wiki info: 
The Open Door is a 2008 Australian horrorthriller film, directed by Doc Duhame and starring Catherine Munden, Sarah Christine Smith, and Ryan Doom. Munden's character finds her vengeful wishes toward people coming true.
Anjelica sits at home, angry at being grounded from going to a hip party. She tunes into a legendary pirate radio broadcast, hosted by a strange figure known as the Oracle, that only appears on the nights of the full moon. Angelica wishes ill upon her boyfriend and friends at the party along with her parents, and soon, strange sights and sounds begin, and even stranger things happen to the people around her.

