Final_Destination_5
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 92
Director: Steven Quale
Cast: Nicholas D'Agosto,Emma Bell,Miles Fisher,Ellen Wroe,Jacqueline MacInnes Wood,P.J. Byrne,Arlen Escarpeta,David Koechner,Courtney B. Vance,Tony Todd,Brent Stait,Barclay Hope,Roman Podhora,
Content: Death stalks a group of co-workers who avoid a grisly demise in a massive suspension bridge collapse after one of them experiences a terrifying premonition in the fifth installment of the popular Final Destination series. Series regular Tony Todd returns in this sequel starring David Koechner, Emma Bell, Nicholas D'Agosto, and Miles Fisher. 
Wiki info: 
Final Destination 5 is a 2011 American supernatural horror film written by Eric Heisserer and directed by Steven Quale. It is the fifth installment in the Final Destination film franchise. It stars Nicholas D'Agosto, Emma Bell, Miles Fisher, Arlen Escarpeta,and David Koechner.
The motion picture's world premiere was August 4, 2011 at the Fantasia Festival in Montreal, Canada. It was released in Real D 3D and digital IMAX 3D.
Sam Lawton, is on his way to a company retreat located in a town named North Bay, New York with his co-workers. While Rolland Coach Line Bus 1282 makes it's way to the North Bay Bridge, a log truck operating for Tagert Logging passes by, foreshadowing the Route 23 pile-up from Final Destination 2 and the close call explosions for Tagert Theatres in The Final Destination. The bus then passes by a sign that reads DANGER: CONSTRUCTION and a picture of a bridge. Part of the picture of the bridge is scratched off, hinting that part of the North Bay Bridge will collapse into the cold waters of the North Bay. The bus number, 1282, gives another hint of the North Bay Bridge collapse. Adding the digits together, which is 1+2+8+2, equals 13, the number known to foreshadow unluckiness. While Bus 1282 crosses the North Bay Bridge, Sam suffers a premonition that the bridge will partially collapse, killing everyone and himself except for Molly. Panicked, he persuades his ex-girlfriend Molly Harper, his friends Nathan Sears and Peter Friedkin, Peter's girlfriend Candice Hooper, his boss Dennis Lapman, Candice's rival Olivia Castle and coworker Isaac Palmer to leave the bridge before it partially collapses just like in Sam's premonition. FBI agent Jim Block doesn't believe that Sam was responsible for the bridge collapse, but promises to keep his eye on him. Following the memorial service, local coroner William Bludworth mysteriously warns the survivors that they cheated Death. Believing this to be just some nonsense, they ignore his warnings and move on.
Later, Candice goes to gymnastics practice with Peter, but a chain reaction causes her to fall off the uneven bars and snap her spine, leaving Peter devastated. The next day, Isaac is killed when his head is crushed by a falling Budai statue during an acupuncture session at a Chinese spa. Bludworth, who has been present for both deaths so far, tells the remaining survivors that if they wish to cheat Death, they must kill someone who was never meant to die on the bridge, and thereby claim their remaining lifespan. Sam and Molly then try to save Olivia at the eye surgery clinic, but are unable to after she falls onto a car's windshield. Later, after Sam and Molly studied Death's design, they notice that Nathan is next on Death's list.
Meanwhile, Nathan, who has returned to the plant, accidentally kills his antagonistic co-worker Roy Carson during an argument between the two when he shoves him in the path of a lifting hook, impaling his head. Nathan relays this information to the remaining survivors, who suggest that it means Nathan was successfully able to claim Roy's remaining lifespan and thus was skipped over. When Dennis arrives to question Nathan about the incident, he is suddenly killed when a stray wrench is launched by a belt sander, penetrating his head.
That evening, Sam works at the restaurant, becoming very cautious as he moves around, trying to prevent a fatal accident. After his work is done, Sam asks his mentor to allow the restaurant for him for the night. He allows Sam to have the restaurant to himself for a date with Molly. Peter, who has now been driven paranoid and insane by Candice's death, interrupts the date in order to inform them that he nearly pushed a stranger in front of a truck after convincing himself that he would be able to kill someone else in order to take their lifespan; subsequently, he has decided to kill Molly and take her remaining lifespan for himself. After Peter draws a gun and fires shots, Sam and Molly both escape to the restaurant's kitchen. Nearby outside, Agent Block overhears the shots and enters the restaurant. He arrives during the confrontation, but is shot and killed by Peter. Believing he is now safe from Death for taking Block's lifespan, he decides to kill both Molly and Sam to remove any witnesses. After some violent struggling, Sam kills Peter with a meat spit before he can harm Molly.
Two weeks later, Sam and Molly are boarding a plane to Paris, France. As they are taking their seats, a fight breaks out between two passengers, revealed to be Carter Horton and Alex Browning, resulting in their removal from the plane with the other passengers. The plane that Sam and Molly are boarding is revealed to be Volee Airlines Flight 180. In mid-air, before realizing they are too late to save themselves, both are killed in the resulting accident.
Meanwhile, at Roy's memorial, Nathan learns from a co-worker, John, that Roy's autopsy had revealed that Roy had a brain aneurysm, and that doctors said he would be dead "any day now". As Nathan starts thinking that perhaps he had not saved himself, the landing gear from Flight 180 crashes through the roof of the building and crushes him, setting off the events of the first four films.

