The_Wicker_Tree
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 96
Director: Robin Hardy
Cast: Graham McTavish,Jacqueline Leonard,Brittania Nicol,Henry Garrett,Honeysuckle Weeks,Clive Russell,Prue Clarke,Leslie Mackie,David Plimmer,Keith Warwick,Christopher Lee,
Content: Director Robin Hardy revisits his 1974 cult classic The Wicker Man with this related horror film concerning a cowboy  (Henry Garrett) and a gospel singer (Brittania Nicol) who stop in Ireland on a missionary excursion only to come in contact with an aristocrat (Graham McTavish) whose nefarious plans don't include being reformed by their Christian ways. Christopher Lee returns for a small role in this semi-sequel. 
Wiki info: 
The Wicker Tree is a 2011 horror film written and directed by British filmmaker Robin Hardy. The film contains many direct parallels and allusions to the 1973 film The Wicker Man, which was also directed by Hardy. The Wicker Tree is neither a sequel nor a remake, but is intended as a companion piece which explores the same themes. It is the second part of The Wicker Man Trilogy. The film premiered at the Fantasia Festival in Montreal, Canada, July 2011 and was released on BluRay in the UK on April 30, 2012.
Based on Hardy's own 2006 novel Cowboys for Christ, the film focuses on Texas pop star turned gospel singer Beth (Brittania Nicol) and her boyfriend, Steve (Henry Garrett), both devout evangelical Christians from the church Cowboys for Christ, sent on a mission to spread the word of God to the people of Scotland.
Beth is a successful pop singer and a devout evangelical Christian from Texas, United States. She and her fiance Steve both wear purity rings, and belong to a group known as the "Cowboys for Christ", who travel to "heathen areas" of the world to preach Christianity. The Reverend Moriarty (James Mapes) sends them off to travel to Glasgow, Scotland, hoping to save some souls once there. However, they are shocked when they receive a very negative reception, Beth even being set upon by a large dog.
After performing a concert at a local cathedral, the duo are approached by Sir Lachlan Morrison and his wife Delia, the laird of the small village of Tressock in the Scottish lowlands. They invite Beth and Steve to come back with them to preach, but intend them for a more central part in Tressock's May Day celebration.
Meanwhile, detective Orlando is sent to Tressock, posing as the local police officer, in order to secretly investigate reports of a pagan cult. Orlando discovers that the people of the village worship the ancient Celt goddess Sulis.
Beth and Steve decide to begin their preaching at the May Day celebrations in the village. In an attempt to impress the locals, they agree to becoming the local Queen of the May and the Laddie for the festival not realising the consequences of their decision and not knowing what awaits them. At the end, both of them are killed in the ritual.

