Paranormal_Activity_4
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 87
Director: Henry Joost
Cast: Kathryn Newton,Matt Shively,Brady Allen,Aiden Lovekamp,Alexondra Lee,Stephen Dunham,Katie Featherston,Sprague Grayden,Brian Boland,Jackson Xenia Prieto and William Juan Prieto,
Content: The Paranormal Activity film series continues with this fourth entry from Paramount Pictures and returning directors of the previous outing, Henry Joost and Ariel Schulman. This time, the cell phones and computer cameras are focused on a teenage girl (Kathryn Newton) whose family allow a young boy in their neighborhood named Robbie (Brady Allen) to stay with them while his mom is sick. Soon after, eerie things start happening in the household, some of which focus on the girl's younger brother Wyatt. As the bumps in the night become more pronounced, the mysteries surrounding Robbie's family and the house across the street grow to the point where the only thing for the teen girl to do is investigate herself. 
Wiki info: 
Paranormal Activity 4 is a 2012 American supernatural horror film, directed by Ariel Schulman and Henry Joost, directors of Paranormal Activity 3, and written by Christopher Landon from a story by Chad Feehan. The film features Katie Featherston, who starred in the first film, and had cameos in the other two. The film was released in theaters and IMAX on October 17, 2012 in the United Kingdom and was released on October 18, 2012 in the United States, by Paramount Pictures. It is the fourth film in the Paranormal Activity film series, and a sequel to Paranormal Activity 2, set several years later.
On October 9, 2006, Kristi Rey and her husband Daniel are killed by her demon-possessed sister Katie (Katie Featherston). She then abducts Kristi's newborn son, Hunter, unaware that Kristi's teenage daughter, Ali, is still alive and away on a school trip. A text states that Katie and Hunter's whereabouts remained unknown.
In November 2011, a teenager named Alex (Kathryn Newton) and her family live in suburban Henderson, Nevada with her mother Holly (Alexondra Lee), her father Doug (Stephen Dunham), and her little brother Wyatt (Aiden Lovekamp). Alex and her boyfriend, Ben (Matt Shively), who is going to Mexico, discover their neighbor's child, Robbie (Brady Allen), hiding in their family treehouse. The next day, Robbie's mother falls ill and is taken to the hospital, leaving Robbie in the care of Alex's family. Robbie begins mentioning an invisible friend, whose presence is captured by a series of laptop cameras set up by Alex and Ben. On an Xbox Kinect, pixel dots show an invisible figure stand up and walk. One night, Alex notices several cars outside Robbie's house, but flees after being confronted by a woman. During the day, Robbie draws a green symbol on Wyatt's back, which Alex later determines to be associated with witchcraft and demonic possession.
The following day, Robbie takes Wyatt to his house. Alex follows them and finds Robbie's mother, who is actually Katie. The next night, Doug experiences some paranormal activity himself when one of Holly's missing knives tries to fall on him. Meanwhile, Wyatt talks to an invisible being, seemingly pleading that his name is not Hunter. The next day, Wyatt confides in Alex that Katie told him he was adopted, like Robbie, and that his birth family needs him. Wyatt is taking a bath when he is violently pulled underwater by an unseen force, remaining underwater for a long time, before emerging, now referring to himself as Hunter. He goes into Alex's room and levitates a sleeping Alex into the air. The next morning, as Alex checks the footage on her computer, it seems like she can't get her files open.
The next night, alone in the house with Wyatt, Alex video-chats with Ben about her parents being mad at her for questioning Wyatt's adoption, and hears the garage door open by itself. She goes down to close it but gets locked in. Katie is seen going upstairs to Wyatt's room, where he is hiding in his closet. Katie calls for Hunter, saying, "It's your aunt Katie... you're almost ready Hunter... I'll be here till you're ready." Alex is trapped in the garage, where the family car turns on by itself and begins spewing carbon monoxide exhaust. She escapes by breaking into the car and crashing out through the garage door. When her family gets home, they don't believe her account of what happened. The next morning, Holly is alone in the house, and begins to hear strange noises. Katie enters the house undetected, and goes to Wyatt's room. Holly is picked up and violently thrown against the ceiling by a hissing invisible entity. She crashes to the floor with a loud snap. Katie drags her body away. Ben later arrives to discover no one is home. He leaves Alex a phone message, telling her that he has discovered everything behind these strange occurrences. Ben goes to view the footage on the laptop but Katie appears behind him and snaps his neck.
Alex and her father arrive, and he thinks he sees Alex's mother with Wyatt (or Robbie and Katie) outside. As he goes to explore, Alex goes to her room and discovers Ben's body. She is suddenly gets attacked by an invisible entity and gets dragged out of her bedroom. She then breaks free from it,runs to Katie's house and finds her dad being dragged violently by the unseen entity. She looks in the rooms to find that Doug's body isn't there, she goes to see a window with Spanish newspapers stuck to it. She then hears Wyatt calling Alex for help. As she turns around, Katie appears and storms forwards, demonically screaming. Alex quickly climbs out of the window at the rear of the house, where she discovers Wyatt standing still. She pleads with him to run away with her, but he stands there, face blank. As Alex looks up, she sees dozens of demon-faced women, wearing necklaces of what seemed to be the witchcraft symbol, marching towards her. She turns the other way, only to be attacked by a possessed Katie, before the credits appear in silence.
In a post-credits scene, two Spanish-speaking men in Mexico with a camera go into a mysterious store. They think that store sells "witchcraft". They decide to run to the exit but an old and scared-looking Mexican woman appears and states, translated from Spanish, that "This is only the beginning". Frightened by her, the men leave the store and the camera cuts to black.

