Once_Bitten
Released Year: 1985
Running time: 93
Director: Howard Storm
Cast: Lauren Hutton,Jim Carrey,Karen Kopins,Cleavon Little,Thomas Ballatore,Skip Lackey,Richard Schaal,Peggy Pope,Megan Mullally,
Content: Best remembered for containing the film debut of phenomenally popular comedian of the early '90s, Jim Carrey, Once Bitten is a horror comedy that chronicles the attempts of a bloodthirsty female vampire living in modern day Los Angeles to find the three male virgins she needs every year to stay alive and young-looking. If she cannot do it by Halloween, she will surely die. 
Wiki info: 
Once Bitten is a 1985 American horror comedy film starring Lauren Hutton and Jim Carrey. Carrey stars as Mark Kendall, an innocent and naive high school student who is seduced in a Hollywood club by a sultry blonde countess (Hutton) who, unknown to him, is really a centuries old vampire. The film was Carrey's seventh film and his first main role.
For the last 400 years, the Countess has collected a stable of young men and women who will accompany her on her journey through eternal night-and youth. While she is immortal, she is required to drink the blood of a young male virgin three times by Halloween each year in order to keep her youthful appearance - a task she finds increasingly and extremely difficult since attractive young male virgins are almost impossible to find in the 1980s, particularly in hedonistic cities, ex. in this case, Los Angeles.
Meanwhile, high school student Mark Kendall wants to have sex, but is being put off by his girlfriend Robin Pierce. One night, Mark and his best friends Jamie and Russ go into a singles bar in Hollywood. Mark meets the Countess and he goes back to her mansion, and after she seduces him, he passes out when she bites his thigh. When he wakes up, she pretends they have had sex and tells him that he is now hers. Mark does not realize what she means by that, and over the next few days he begins showing strange behavior; having strange dreams, avoiding direct sunlight and even drinking blood (from raw meat). After the Countess gets a second bite, Robin notices Mark's odd behavior and confronts the Countess during a dance-off at the high school's Halloween dance. While it appears that Robin has won back Mark, this is only temporary. The Countess kidnaps Robin in order to lure Mark to her mansion for a final bite before her deadline expires, and it is up to Robin, Jamie and Russ to stop her. Eventually, in order to save Mark from the Countess's clutches, he and Robin have sex in a coffin while being chased by the Countess's minions, thereby taking Mark's virginity, bringing him back to normal. This renders him useless to the Countess as she has to drink virgin blood. Defeated, the Countess then begins to grow old and decrepit before their very eyes. The Countess' assistant, Sebastian, tells her not to worry as there are other virgins in the world despite the fact that the Countess doubts she will find another virgin. The movie ends with Mark and Robin continuing to have sex in the coffin.

