Jack_&_Diane
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 105
Director: Bradley Rust Gray
Cast: Juno Temple,Riley Keough,Dane DeHaan,Haviland Morris,Cara Seymour,Kylie Minogue,
Content: Two teenage girls enter into a passionate romance that threatens to fall apart when one announces that she will soon be leaving for school, which creates a swell of emotions and brings about a disturbing transformation. When it comes to love, New York City tomboy Jack (Riley Keough) always plays it cool. But when she meets Diane (Juno Temple), something just clicks. Beautiful and unassuming, Diane captures Jack's heart almost instantly. But trouble starts to brew when Diane reveals that she won't be in the city much longer. School is starting, and when it does, she'll head back to Europe. Crestfallen, Jack puts up an emotional wall that Diane does her best to break through. Upon realizing Jack has no intention of continuing their relationship, Diane finds her emotions surging out of control, and the disturbing visions that have been haunting her threaten to lead them both down a terrifying path from which neither may ever return. Kylie Minogue co-stars. 
Wiki info: 
Jack and Diane is a 2012 American film written and directed by Bradley Rust Gray, and starring Juno Temple and Riley Keough. Olivia Thirlby and Ellen Page were originally cast for the lead roles in 2008 before the project was postponed.
Diane (Juno Temple) experiences chronic nosebleeds. She checks herself in a mirror and she is transformed into a monster before falling unconscious. Earlier, she walks in the streets trying to borrow cellphone in order to call her twin sister Karen. As to no avail, she enters a clothing store and asks to use a phone. There, she meets a lesbian of her age, Jack (Riley Keough), who is clearly smitten by Diane. Diane nose starts bleeding again and Jack gives her a hand. Jack then takes Diane to a night club. When they get there, Diane seems nauseous and a lot of blood shed more from her nose and she goes to the restroom. This scene is parallel to as the beginning of the film. She gains unconsciousness and meets up with Jack and the girls ferociously kiss.
By morning, the girls part ways and Jack is uncritically hit by a car. Back at Diane's home, she is reprimanded by her aunt Linda (Cara Seymour) and tells her she is grounded. Diane strikes back by telling her she's not her mother. Both of the girl feels misunderstood back in their homes. Nevertheless, Diane visits Jack in her home. Jack confides with Diane about her sentimental cassette tape from her late brother. One day, Jack visits Diane in her home where the girls get into an argument when Linda intentionally tells Jack about Diane leaving for school in France.
After Jack leaves her, Diane suffers from desolation and she starts to unravel. Meanwhile, Jack hangs out with a lesbian, Tara (Kylie Minogue), whom she works with. They have an intimate moment but Jack rebuffs her shortly after. The next day, Diane hangs out with one of Jack's friend, Chris (Dane DeHaan) and Jack is startled. The girls play a game as to whoever wins would either leave or stay. Jack wins and Diane is forced to go home. Jack gets back to Chris where he finds a video of Diane's sister Karen getting raped in an adult website. Feeling sorry for her sister, Jack finally reconciles with Diane in her home.
Over the course of the next few days, the girls finally spend much time romantically with one another. One night, Jack has a dream of Diane transforming into a monster and devouring her heart. She wakes up only to find Diane on her side with blood gushing out of her nose. As days are narrowed down before Diane would leave for school, the bond between the two girls starts to turn debilitated. The girls go to a locker room and the lights suddenly go off. Afraid of the dark, Jack seeks help from Diane whom she had given a polaroid camera before the lights went off. The couple are separated and Diane searches for Jack by flashing through her camera. She encounters the same monster from earlier, and she is found sobbing by Jack. The two girls console each other, finally letting go of their fears. Jack goes to see Diane on her last day before she departs for school and the girl's relationship is compromised. After a few weeks, Diane receives a gift from Jack and reveals it to be the cassette tape. She turns the song on and listens to it profoundly, reminiscing about her encounter with Jack.

