Deadly_Skies
Released Year: 2005
Running time: 86
Director: Sam Irvin
Cast: Antonio Sabato Jr.,Rae Dawn Chong,Michael Boisvert,Dominic Zamprogna,Michael Moriarty,Rob LaBelle,Hrothgar Mathews,Doron Bell,Kirby Morrow,Sean Whale,Terri Anne Welyki,Holly Eglington,Jerry Cowan,Louis Chirillo,Chris Kalhoon,
Content: When a keen-eyed scientist discovers that a large asteroid is currently on a deadly collision course with the planet Earth, she must seek the help of a military outcast to jump into action and save humanity from annihilation in a tense, end-of-the-world thriller starring Rae Dawn Chong, Antonio Sabato, Jr., and Michael Moriarty. Dr. Madison Kelsey (Chong) has made a terrifying discovery, but time isn't on her side and in order to prevent the largest disaster ever known to man she is going to have to act fast. Though ex-military scientist Richard Donovan (Sabato, Jr) may be able to help, he is still reeling after being ejected from the armed forces due to his homosexuality. There's little time for old grudges in these final days, however, and when Dr. Kelsey and Donovan agree to work together for the good of mankind, the rest of the world waits with baited breath to receive word of their ultimate fate. 
Wiki info: 
Deadly Skies is a 2006 science-fiction television film starring Antonio Sabato, Jr., Rae Dawn Chong, Dominic Zamprogna, Michael Boisvert, Rob LaBelle and Michael Moriarty. The plot concerns the effort of two astronomers and two military men to stop the threat of a giant asteroid on a collision course with Earth. The film is notable for being released in multiple versions for the United States and international markets. Deadly Skies is the American title; the American release includes a romantic relationship between Sabato's and Boisvert's characters. The censored international DVD version, titled Force of Impact, excises several minutes of footage which establish that relationship and includes additional footage establishing a romantic relationship between Sabato's and Chong's characters. This version was also released under the title Ultimate Limit (UK) (DVD title) and Force of Impact (Canada: English title) (censored version).
Madison (Chong) and her assistant Hockstetter (Zamprogna) are astronomers who track near-Earth objects in space. They are not taken seriously by the scientific community. When they locate and track a massive asteroid on a collision course for Earth, Madison takes her findings to government scientist Covington (LaBelle). Initially he pays her some attention but, under pressure from Air Force General Dutton (Moriarty), dismisses her. In desperation she takes her research to Donovan (Sabato), a former Air Force officer who was discharged under Don't ask, don't tell. Joining with Donovan's active-duty lover, Mark (Boisvert), the four hatch a plan to infiltrate an Air Force base that houses a massive laser weapon to destroy the asteroid. Despite resistance from Dutton and Air Force troops, the group is able to commandeer the weapon and use it to deflect the asteroid just enough so that it misses the planet.
Scenes removed from the censored version include a sex scene between Donovan and Mark, a line in which Donovan tells Madison why he was discharged and a second intimate scene between Donovan and Mark. Additionally, a short scene establishing a romantic interest between Donovan and Madison was added to the end of the censored version.

