Dragon_Storm
Released Year: 2003
Running time: 92
Director: Steven Feuerstein
Cast: Tony Amendola,John Rhys-Davies,Maxwell Caulfield,Angel Boris,Woon Young Park,Richard Wharton,Iskra Angelova,John Hansson,Ivaylo Geraskov,Tyrone Pinkham,
Content: Ancient warriors are pitted against fire-breathing creatures from outer space in this made-for-TV fantasy adventure. In the Middle Ages, a handful of meteorites begin plummeting toward Earth, but these are not ordinary bits of space debris. The meteorites contain eggs which hatch into fire-breathing dragons, and King Fastrad (John Rhys-Davies) discovers their presence when they destroy his castle. Fastrad is forced to enter into an alliance with another monarch in order to protect his people, but when they find themselves at odds about how to deal with the dragons, they enlist the forces of Silas (Maxwell Caulfield), a master hunter, who is now out to capture the greatest prey of his life. 
Wiki info: 
Dragon Storm is a 2004 made for TV fantasy action film written by Patrick Phillips and Sam Wells, and directed by Stephen Furst. The film is noted as the Sci Fi Channel's most-watched original movie with over 3&#160;million viewers of the premiere broadcast.
Meteorites falling from the sky during a meteor shower act as transportation for dragons traveling within. The dragons wreak havoc on the surrounding medieval countryside and two rival monarchs, King Fastrad (John Rhys-Davies) and King Wednesbury (John Hansson) must join forces to face the threat.
A messenger arrives to warn King Fastrad who does not believe him, until the dragons make their appearance and destroy his fiefdom. Fastrad and his top aids then head to the fiefdom of King Wednesbury, ostensibly to seek aid, but planning to overthrow him. Along the way they meet Silas (Maxwell Caulfield), a hunter who agrees, for a price, to escort and protect the party from the countryside's other dangers. They reach Wednesbury and Fastrad falsely accuses Silas of being a poacher in order to wiggle out of the debt. Silas is joined by the Mystic Scholar Ling (Woon Young Park), the vengeance-seeking Remmegar (Richard Wharton), and King Wednesbury's warrior daughter Medina (Angel Boris). One of the meteors was damaged when it fell, killing its dragon passenger. Ling studies the dead beast and the party decides to set off to hunt the remaining dragons using a giant balista. While they are gone, Fastrad continues plotting against Wednesbury, and blackmails Wednesbury's aide to kill Silas.

