The_Bride_with_White_Hair_2
Released Year: 1993
Running time: 80
Director: Ronny Yu
Cast: Brigitte Lin,Leslie Cheung,Christy Chung,Sunny Chan,Joey Meng,Cheung Kwok-leung,Lily Chung,Lee Heung-kam,Ruth Winona Tao,Eddy Ko,Law Lan,Yu Chun-fung,Richard Suen,Jacky Yeung,Wong Sun,Yeung Jing-jing,Lee Wai-choh,
Content: Editor and co-writer of the original, David Wu Tai-wai directs this follow-up to the wildly popular romantic fantasy-horror masterwork Bride With White Hair. The last film ended with Cho (Leslie Cheung Kwok-wing), following the defeat of the Wu Tang clan, waiting atop the snowy peak of mount Shing for a rare flower to blossom and heal his ailing lover. Ni-chang (Brigitte Lin Ching-hsia), feeling spurned by Cho thanks to the evil doings of a pair of Siamese twins in the previous movie, has morphed into a demon with a head of white poisonous hair. She creates a cult dedicated to her hatred of men, vowing to kill every member of the Eight Clans of Chung Yuan. Among them is Fung Chun-kit (Sunny Chan Kam-hung), Cho's cousin who is in love with the beautiful Lyre (Joey Maan Yee-man). On their wedding night, Ni-chang, Ling (Christy Chung), and a number of other disciplines crash the party and kidnap the bride. Back in their lair, they slowly turn Lyre against her would-be groom. 
Wiki info: 
The Bride with White Hair 2 is a 1993 Hong Kong film directed by David Wu. It is the sequel to The Bride with White Hair, with Brigitte Lin and Leslie Cheung reprising their roles as Lian Nishang and Zhuo Yihang. Although the first film is loosely based on Liang Yusheng's Baifa Monü Zhuan, this film is almost independent of the novel except for the main characters' names.
Lian Nishang felt betrayed by her lover, Zhuo Yihang, and has since morphed into the vicious "White-Haired Witch". She starts a feminist cult which accepts women who were exploited by men. Its members include Chen Yuanyuan, who was betrayed by Wu Sangui. Meanwhile, Zhuo Yihang awaits on a snow-capped mountain for a rare flower to bloom, as he believes that it can turn Lian Nishang's hair black again. Lian Nishang vows to kill the surviving members of the eight major martial arts sects, who view her as their sworn enemy after she killed their seniors.
Feng Junjie, heir to the Wudang Sect's leadership position, marries Yu Qin, with the elders of the other sects as their witnesses. On the wedding night, Lian Nishang appears and kidnaps Yu Qin, leaving behind a trail of destruction and corpses. Feng Junjie survives the massacre and plans with the survivors to infiltrate the Witch's base and rescue his wife. Meanwhile, Lian Nishang brainwashes Yu Qin through a series of rituals and makes her see her husband and the eight sects as foes.
Feng Junjie and his companions confront the Witch and her followers in a battle but are defeated and only Feng and his friend are left of the group. They travel to the mountain in search of Zhuo Yihang, the only person who can stop the Witch from continuing with her brutal massacres. After enduring hardship, they did not find Zhuo Yihang and decide to return to the Witch's base in a final attempt to save Yu Qin. Feng Junjie is no match for Lian Nishang and is almost killed by her when Zhuo Yihang suddenly appears and stops her.
Lian Nishang uses her hair to pierce through Zhuo Yihang's body, critically wounding him, but she refrains from killing him as her hatred towards him gradually subsides. Just then, Chen Yuanyuan stabs Lian Nishang for betraying the cult's founding principles, causing Lian to pull her hair out from Zhuo Yihang's body, but Lian kills Chen as well. The film ends with the deaths of Zhuo Yihang and Lian Nishang, who finally forget their past feud and are laid to rest together as lovers. On the other hand, Feng Junjie is reunited with his wife, who has recovered from her trance.

