The_Valley_of_Gwangi
Released Year: 1969
Running time: 95
Director: James P. O&#039;Connolly
Cast: James Franciscus,Gila Golan,Richard Carlson,Laurence Naismith,Freda Jackson,Gustavo Rojo,Dennis Kilbane,Mario De Barros,Curtis Arden,
Content: When a traveling Wild West show comes to town, the natives are frightened by a one-foot-tall horse that is believed to be a bad omen. The superstitious natives try to return the horse to The Valley of Gwangi to avert disaster. Tuck (James Franciscus) and T.J. (Gila Golan) try to help archaeologist Bromley (James Naismith) find the tiny equine in the valley, but they unleash a prehistoric giant monster in the process in this implausible adventure feature. 
Wiki info: 
The Valley of Gwangi is a 1969 American western-fantasy film directed by Jim O'Connolly and written by William Bast. It stars James Franciscus and, in their final film appearances, Richard Carlson and Gila Golan. It was filmed in Technicolor with creature effects provided by Ray Harryhausen, the last dinosaur-themed film to be animated by him.
In Mexico at the turn of the 20th century, a beautiful cowgirl named T.J. Breckenridge (Gila Golan) hosts a struggling rodeo. Her former lover Tuck Kirby (James Franciscus), a heroic former stuntman working for Buffalo Bill's Wild West show, wants to buy her out. Along the way, he is followed by a Mexican boy named Lope (Curtis Arden), who intends to join the rodeo on a quest for fame and fortune. T.J. is not interested in Tuck because of this, but Tuck is still attracted to T.J., especially when T.J. jumps off a diving board on her horse. T.J. finally accepts Tuck when he saves a matador from a bull and the two kiss on the lips.
T.J. has an ace she hopes will boost attendance at her show - a tiny horse, El Diablo. Tuck meets a British paleontologist named Horace Bromley (Laurence Naismith), who is working in a nearby Mexican desert. Bromley shows Tuck fossilized horse tracks, and Tuck notes their similarity to El Diablo's feet. Tuck sneaks Bromley into the circus for a look at El Diablo, and Bromley declares the horse to be an Eohippus.
The tiny horse came from a place known as the Forbidden Valley. A Gypsy known as Tia Zorina (Freda Jackson) claims that the horse is cursed, and demands that it must be returned. Later, she and other gypsies collaborate with Bromley to steal El Diablo and release him in the valley. Bromley hopes to following the horse to its home in search of other prehistoric specimens. Carlos (Gustavo Rojo), an ex-member of the Gypsy tribe now working for T.J.'s circus, walks in on the theft and tries to stop it, but is knocked out.
Tuck arrives just as the Gypsy posse leaves. Carlos sees him as he is regaining consciousness. Tuck notices that the horse is missing, and sets off after Bromley. When T.J. and her crew discover Carlos, Carlos claims that Tuck has stolen El Diablo for himself. Carlos, T.J., and the others decide to follow Tuck and Bromley into the valley.
Making their way into the Forbidden Valley, Tuck, T.J., and the rest of the group meet up and soon discover why the valley is said to be cursed when a Pteranodon swoops down and snatches Lope but due to the weight it falls back to the ground. After Carlos kills the Pteranodon by twisting its neck, they spot an Ornithomimus, a small dinosaur which they chase after in the hopes of capturing it. Just as the Ornithomimus is about to escape, it is killed by Gwangi, a vicious Allosaurus which chases Bromley and the rest of the group. However, a Styracosaurus appears and drives Gwangi away. As Gwangi leaves, he takes the dead Pteranodon with him.
Later, Gwangi pursues the people to their base camp and the cowboys try to rope him down but he breaks free when the Styracosaurus reappears. When the styracosaurus battles Gwangi, Gwangi kills it with Carlos' help.
Gwangi manages to catch and kill Carlos, but is knocked out while trying to exit the valley in pursuit of the rest of the group. Securing the creature, Tuck and other men in the group take Gwangi back to town to be put on display in T.J.'s show. On the opening day of the show, a Gypsy dwarf sneaks in and begins to unlock Gwangi's cage in an effort to free him, only to be killed and eaten when Gwangi breaks free. The crowd begins to flee as Gwangi attacks, and Tia Zorina is trampled to death in the chaos. Bromley is crushed by a broken piece of the cage, and Gwangi attacks and kills a circus elephant before rampaging through the town. Tuck, accompanied by T.J. and Lope, tries to hide the crowd in a cathedral, but Gwangi finds them and breaks in. Tuck urges the crowd out through a back exit, leaving Tuck inside with Gwangi, T.J., and Lope.
Gwangi tries to eat Lope, but Tuck manages to distract him by stabbing him with a flag. Tuck is eventually able to throw a torch onto the floor near Gwangi, setting the building on fire. Tuck and the others manage to escape and lock the door behind them, trapping Gwangi in the burning building. Roaring in agony, Gwangi dies in the fire as Tuck, T.J., the crowd, Lope (with tears in his eyes), and the townspeople look on.

