Dungeons_&_Dragons
Released Year: 2000
Running time: 107
Director: Courtney Solomon
Cast: Justin Whalin,Marlon Wayans,Jeremy Irons,Thora Birch,Bruce Payne,Zoe McLellan,Kristen Wilson,Lee Arenberg,Richard O'Brien,Robert Minao,
Content: The imaginary world of the world's most popular fantasy role-playing game comes to life in this special-effects laden adventure. In the Empire of Izmer, magic is the key to power in both the supernatural and political realms. The Mages are a sect who know the secrets of magic and use it to hold sway over the masses. The youthful Empress Savina (Thora Birch) wants to use her powers to bring justice and prosperity to all, but Profion (Jeremy Irons) is an evil Mage who wants to use his knowledge of magic to overthrow Savina and establish his own despotic rule. Through deceitful means, Profion wins away the special scepter that allows him to control the nation's Golden Dragons; Savina's only hope to recover the scepter and the rule of Izmer is to obtain the Rod of Savrille, a talisman that will give her powers over the Red Dragons, even more powerful than their golden counterparts. As Savina sets out to gain control of the Red Dragons, she gains a number of unlikely allies, including a pair of thieves, Snails (Marlon Wayans) and Ridely (Justin Whalin); a powerful dwarf, Elwood (Lee Arenberg); and Norda (Kristen Wilson), an elf with a gift for finding lost objects. Dungeons & Dragons also features Zoe McLellan, Bruce Payne, and Richard O'Brien, the latter of whom is best known as the writer and co-star of the perennial cult item The Rocky Horror Picture Show. 
Wiki info: 
Dungeons & Dragons is a 2000 American fantasy film directed by Courtney Solomon and ostensibly based on the Dungeons & Dragons role-playing game. Among the more notable features of the otherwise poorly received film are cameo appearances by Richard O'Brien (in a parody of his TV programme The Crystal Maze) and Tom Baker. Parts of the film were made on location at Sedlec Ossuary.
Despite its poor box-office performance, a made-for-TV sequel, Dungeons & Dragons: Wrath of the Dragon God was released in 2005. It did not directly continue on the storyline of the previous film, though Bruce Payne's character, Damodar, makes a return. A third film, Dungeons & Dragons: The Book of Vile Darkness, was shot in 2011 and direct-to-DVD released in the United Kingdom on August 9, 2012.
The Empire of Izmer has long been a divided land, ruled by the Mages, an elite group of magic users, who oppress the lower Commoners. The antagonist of the film, an evil mage named Profion (Jeremy Irons) creates a sceptre that allows him to control golden dragons. He tries it out on one, but the dragon breaks the spell of the sceptre, and starts killing Profion's minions. Profion kills the dragon, which bleeds into the river, causing it to catch fire. Many of the inhabitants notice, among them the protagonists of the film, a pair of thieves named Ridley (Justin Whalin) and Snails (Marlon Wayans). They conspire to break into the Magic School, the elite learning place of the Mages, and steal magic items.
Later, Profion and the Council talk about the controversial views of Empress Savina (Thora Birch); who wants to stop Profion and free the 'non-magic' commoners. Meanwhile, Ridley and Snails break into the Magic School but are caught by a young mage named Marina (Zoe McLellan) who casts a spell on them which ties them together with an invisible rope. She gets distracted, though, when the library wizard is held hostage and interrogated by Profion's henchman, Damodar, (Bruce Payne) to force him to reveal a map to a magic sceptre, the 'Rod of Saville', that can control red dragons. He refuses to talk and sends the map to Marina, and is at once killed by Damodar. Marina gets the map and travels through a magic portal to escape, dragging Ridley and Snails with her. After crashing into a pile of garbage, they meet a dwarf named Elwood (Lee Arenberg), who ends up escaping with them through a sewer.
Damodar puts a price on Marina, Ridley, Snails and Elwood's heads. After learning that the protagonists got away with the map, Profion creates a tentacled monster inside Damodar's head. The protagonists hide in a tavern and, while reading the map, Ridley and Marina get sucked into it. Damodar and his henchmen arrive and attempt to capture Snails and Elwood and the map, but they manage to get away. Outside the inn, Ridley and Marina exit the map and all decide to work together to find the 'Rod of Saville'. They have to find a red ruby called the 'Eye of the Dragon' that can open the door to a tomb where the Rod rests. The ruby is located inside a hazardous maze that is owned by a thief named Xilus (Richard O'Brien) who will give them the 'Eye' if Ridley can obtain the ruby and survive the maze. Ridley manages to get the 'Eye of the Dragon', but Xilus attempts to take it by force when Damodar shows up. Marina gets captured while Ridley, Snails and Elwood escape, meeting an elf named Norda (Kristen Wilson). Norda works as a tracker for Empress Savina and informs the Empress about Profion's plans to get the 'Rod of Saville'. Meanwhile, Damodar tries interrogating Marina. When she refuses to talk, he uses the tentacles of the monster in his head to gain the knowledge he seeks.
Ridley and Snails break into the castle where Marina is imprisoned to rescue her, while Norda and Elwood stay behind. They split up and Ridley finds Marina. Snails falls into a quicksand trap in Damodar's room after finding the map and some magical powder. Snails is then chased through the castle by Damodar, while Ridley and Marina fight to get back out. They follow Snails and Damodar to the roof where Snails is killed by Damodar when he throws the map to Ridley. Ridley becomes enraged at Damodar and attacks him, but Damodar disarms him and stabs him in the shoulder with his own sword. In the confusion Marina grabs some of the magic dust that Snails pilfered and casts a spell to knock down Damodar. She and Ridley then escape through a portal, leaving the corpse of Snails behind.
Back at the council chambers, Profion and Empress Savina battle over the future of Izmir. Meanwhile, an elf (Tom Baker) heals Norda's soldiers and Ridley. Ridley has a dream of a dragon being born, and learns that if Profion and Savina go to war, it will tip the balance of magic in the world.
Later, Ridley accuses Marina of being an "evil mage", because of the Mages' oppressions of the Commoners. Marina tells Ridley that he is wrong, and that the Empress is trying to resolve all of the things that Ridley hates. Eventually, they become love interests and Ridley uses the 'Eye of the Dragon' to finally get the 'Rod of Saville', which is held by the skeleton of Saville in the tomb. The skeleton comes to life and warns Ridley that "anyone who wields the power of the rod shall suffer a horrible fate". Meanwhile, Damodar arrives outside and captures the other three companions. When Ridley comes out, Damodar requests the Rod in exchange for his companions. Ridley gives the Rod to Damodar, who orders his execution along with his friends and then turns to leave to complete his mission. Norda stabs her guards with hidden knives, frees Marina and Elwood and they all follow Ridley to the capital city of Sumdall.
Meanwhile, in Sumdall, Profion uses mages to fight the Empress. Savina calls forth golden dragons and they fight the mages. Damodar arrives with the Rod, and Profion reluctantly frees Damodar from the creature in his head (this is addressed in "Wrath of the Dragon God"). Profion then climbs to a high platform to summon red dragons to fight the golden ones. Ridley arrives and battles Damodar, stabbing him and throwing him from the ledge, avenging Snails. He then attacks Profion, who disarms him and shoves him back. Ridley's companions arrive and fight Profion one at a time. Ridley picks up the fallen Rod of Saville, and fights the power it holds. Profion encourages Ridley to use the Rod, but Ridley refuses and destroys it. Empress Savina arrives and condemns Profion, and a golden dragon devours him. She praises all of the adventurers, hailing them as heroes.
Ridley later visits Snails' grave (with a voice over of Savina telling the people of Izmer that they are now all equal), where he tells Snails that he is now "Ridley the Savior", echoing Snails' claim at the beginning of the film. Snails' engraved name then disappears and Norda tells Ridley not to question his abilities. Ridley, Norda, Marina and Elwood then touch the 'Eye of the Dragon' and magically disappear, ending the film.

