Hundra
Released Year: 1983
Running time: 90
Director: Matt Cimber
Cast: Laurene Landon ,John Ghaffari ,Marisa Casel ,Ramiro Oliveros ,Luis Lorenzo ,Tamara ,Victor Gans ,Cristina Torres ,Bettina Brenner ,Maria Vico ,Fernando Bilbao ,Jorge Bosso Gordoza,
Content: In this routine, violent, and often trite female version of Conan, Hundra (Laurene Landon) is an Amazon whose tribe is slaughtered one day while she is away hunting, now it is up to her to find a suitable mate and begin to create a new tribe of little Hundras. Hundra's search takes her to a walled city, but before she finds the ideal male (he is a doctor), she has a lot of head-bashing and sword brandishing to do. Energetic but not exactly fast-paced, this may be an interesting film for feminists, or it may not. 
Wiki info: 
Hundra is a 1983 Italian-Spanish fantasy film directed by Matt Cimber and starring Laurene Landon.
Hundra belongs to a tribe of Amazons. She is the only tribe member of her age who has never been with a man. She declares she would keep it like that. One day when she goes hunting, her tribe is outnumbered and slaughtered by barbarians. As the only survivor she travels to an old wise woman and asks her for advice. To her surprise she is explained she ought to become a mother in order to prevent the final extinction of the Amazons. Subsequently Hundra seeks a father for her child. The first candidate has bad manners and it turns out that he is suffering with a sadistic personality disorder. While she continues her search she is confronted by a murderous robber baron who only wants to kill her. Later she encounters an effeminate pimp. Eventually she gets to know a gentleman who works as healer. She asks him to become the father of her child but she is explained that a man won't get in the right mood if he is approached in an all to blunt way. Hundra asks other women to help her to live up to his expectations. Consequently she succeeds in seducing him, gets pregnant and delivers a child. Unfortunately now an evil pagan priest kidnaps Hundra's daughter. Thus Hundra is coerced into joining a sinister ritual where the priest's followers humiliate her. During this session she is informed that her new friends have freed the child. She fights back and returns to her home lands. The female narrator explains there was proof that Hundra's spirit kept on living in all women ever since.

