The_Lathe_of_Heaven
Released Year: 2002
Running time: 104
Director: Philip Haas
Cast: Bruce Davison,Kevin Conway,Margaret Avery,Niki Flacks,Peyton Park,Vandi Clark,Jo Livingston,Jane Roberts,Tom Matts,Frank Miller,Joye Nash,Gena Sleete,Ben McKinley III,R.A. Mihailoff,
Content: The Lathe of Heaven was a made-for-cable remake of the 1980 TV movie of the same name, both based upon the futuristic novel by Ursula K. LeGuin. Former child star Lukas Haas is effectively cast as George Orr, an otherwise ordinary man who experiences extraordinary dreams. When the visions in his head begin coming true -- and even seem to be altering reality -- the anguished Orr consults psychiatrist Walter Haber (James Caan), which is the first of many miscalculations on the part of the protagonist. Dr. Haber intends to harness George's "talent" to bring his own peculiar notion of Utopia to full fruition. Will the fabric of the space-time continuum unravel as Haber plots and plans and Orr's dreams become more and more frightening? And how does Orr's extremely skeptical (and ravishingly beautiful) lawyer Heather LaLache (Lisa Bonet) figure into all this? Lathe of Heaven made its A&E cable network bow on September 8, 2002. 
Wiki info: 
The Lathe of Heaven is a 1979 film (released in 1980) based on the 1971 science fiction novel The Lathe of Heaven by Ursula K. Le Guin. It was produced in 1979 as part of New York City public television station WNET's Experimental TV Lab project, and directed by David Loxton and Fred Barzyk. Le Guin, by her own account, was involved in the casting, script planning, re-writing, and filming of the production.
The film stars Bruce Davison as protagonist George Orr, Kevin Conway as Dr. William Haber, and Margaret Avery as lawyer Heather LeLache.
In Portland, Oregon in the near future, George Orr is charged with misuse of multiple prescription medications, which he was taking to keep himself from dreaming; he volunteers for psychiatric care to avoid prosecution, and is assigned to the care of licensed "oneirologist" William Haber. Orr's explanation of his drug abuse is incredible: he has known since age 17 that his dreams change reality, and tries to prevent himself from dreaming because he fears their effects.
Haber initially considers Orr's fear as a delusional symptom of neurosis or psychosis, referring to him as "possibly an intelligent schizophrenic". He puts Orr into a hypnotic trance, and encourages him to have an "effective dream" to record his brain function. When he realizes that Orr is telling the truth, Haber begins to use Orr's "effective dreams" to first create a prestigious, well funded institute run by himself, then to attempt to solve various social problems. Haber suggests that Orr dream of a solution to overpopulation (resulting in a plague wiping out three-fourths of the human population), the end to all conflict between people (resulting in an alien invasion uniting mankind), only after numerous failed attempts to "make the world right" admitting to Orr that he believes in Orr's power.
Orr turns to lawyer Heather LeLache for help in getting out of his government-mandated treatments with Haber. LeLache doubts Orr's sanity, but agrees to help him, eventually becoming an ally.
As Haber continues to use Orr to create change in human society, Orr remembers that a dream he experienced years ago, which is briefly portrayed at the opening of the film, is in fact reality: the world was destroyed in a nuclear war, and Orr had been dying from radiation poisoning when he began to dream that it had not happened. Haber enters the final version of his machine for directing dreams, and learns this truth, driving him mad. Orr had joined him in that dream state, and was able to change the world back to a relatively normal version not destroyed, and not severely altered. The end of the film shows Orr working in an antique store run by an alien, with LeLache coming in to browse. She has no memory of him, but agrees to have lunch with him. They encounter Haber, wheelchair bound, on their way to lunch, and Haber recognizes Orr, but cannot come out of his catatonia.

