Night_of_the_Comet
Released Year: 1984
Running time: 95
Director: Thom Eberhardt
Cast: Catherine Mary Stewart,Kelli Maroney,Robert Beltran,Sharon Farrell,Mary Woronov,Geoffrey Lewis,Peter Fox,John Achorn,Michael Bowen,Devon Ericson,Lissa Layng,Janice Kawaye,Chance Boyer,Ivan E. Roth,Dick Rude,Chris Pedersen,John Stuart West,Alex Brown,Marc Poppel,Timothy Ellison,
Content: In this satirical sci-fi comedy, Samantha (Kelli Maroney) and Regina (Catherine Mary Stewart) are two sisters whose father was a hard-bitten Green Beret, but who've grown into typical Valley Girls. They end up spending the night in a steel-lined room just as a comet passes close to the earth, vaporizing the people in its wake. When Samantha and Regina emerge, they discover that they have the city to themselves, and they begin the shopping spree to end all shopping sprees. En route to the mall, they discover Hector (Robert Beltran), the only survivor they've found so far, and they argue over who gets the last boyfriend on Earth. However, the mall holds an unpleasant surprise -- a small army of zombified stockboys who the gals must battle using an arsenal they shoplifted along the way (while lamenting that "Daddy would have gotten us Uzis!" after a MAC-10 fails to fire). Meanwhile, a cadre of soldiers from a special military experiment have come out of hiding, but it seems that they need fresh blood to survive, and Samantha and Regina look like just the refreshment they need. Cult figure Mary Woronov also appears in a supporting role as a scientist. 
Wiki info: 
Night of the Comet is a 1984 horrorscience fiction film written and directed by Thom Eberhardt and starring Catherine Mary Stewart, Robert Beltran, and Kelli Maroney. The plot has elements of science fiction, horror, zombie apocalypse, comedy, and romance.
The film was voted number 10 in Bloody Disgusting's Top 10 Doomsday Horror Films in 2009.
The Earth is passing through the tail of a comet, an event which has not occurred in 65 million years, the last time coinciding with the extinction event that wiped out the dinosaurs. On the night of the comet's passage, large crowds gather outside to watch and celebrate.
18 year old Regina "Reggie" Belmont (Catherine Mary Stewart) works at a movie theater in southern California. She is annoyed to find the initials DMK have the highest score on the theater's arcade game, all the other scores being hers. She stays after the theater closes to become number one again, then later has sex with her boyfriend, the theater projectionist, in the steel-lined projection booth. Meanwhile, Reggie's 16 year old sister Samantha "Sam" (Kelli Maroney) argues with their stepmother, who punches her in the face.
The next morning, a reddish haze covers everything, and there are no signs of life, only piles of red dust surrounding empty clothes. Unaware that anything strange has happened, Larry goes outside and is killed by a zombie. When Reggie goes looking for Larry, she finds the zombie eating him. She runs away and heads home to find her sister. Sam had spent the night in a metal shed, and was also shielded from the comet's effects.
After figuring out what has happened, they hear a disc jockey and race to the radio station, only to find it was just a recording. They come across another survivor there, Hector Gomez (Robert Beltran), who spent the night in the back of his steel semi. When Sam talks into the microphone, her broadcast is heard by government researchers in an underground installation out in the desert. As they listen to Reggie, Sam and Hector debate what to do, the scientists note that the zombies, though less exposed to the comet, will disintegrate into dust themselves.
Hector leaves to see if any of his family survived, but promises to come back. Reggie and Sam go shopping at a mall. After a firefight with some zombie stockboys, the girls are taken prisoner, but are saved by a government rescue team.
Reggie is taken back to their base. Audrey White (Mary Woronov), a disillusioned scientist, offers to dispose of Sam, who was diagnosed as having been exposed, and to wait for Hector. After she fakes euthanizing Sam, she kills the other remaining scientist. When Hector returns, Audrey briefs him on the situation and then gives herself a lethal injection. He and Sam set out to rescue Reggie.
The researchers had suspected and prepared for the comet's effects, but inadvertently left their ventilation system open during the comet's passage allowing the deadly dust to permeate their base. Meanwhile, Reggie has become suspicious, escapes, and discovers that the dying scientists have hunted down and rendered healthy survivors brain dead. They harvest their untainted blood to keep the disease at bay while they search desperately for a cure. Reggie saves a boy and a girl, before they are processed, then unplugs the other victims from their life support machines. Hector and Sam get the trio out of the base.
Eventually, rain washes away the red dust and the world is left in a pristine condition. With Reggie getting Hector and the other two being kids, Sam feels left out. When she ignores Reggie's warning and crosses a deserted street against the still-operating signal light, she is almost run over by a sports car driven by Danny Mason Keener, a teenager her own age. After apologizing, he invites her to go for a ride. As they drive off, the car is shown sporting the initials "DMK" on the vanity plate.

