The_Wizard_of_Oz
Released Year: 1939
Running time: 102
Director: Victor Fleming
Cast: Judy Garland,Frank Morgan,Ray Bolger,Jack Haley,Bert Lahr,Billie Burke,Margaret Hamilton,Clara Blandick,Charley Grapewin,Pat Walshe,Terry,The Singer Midgets,Jerry Maren,Mitchell Lewis,
Content: The third and definitive film adaptation of L. Frank Baum's 1900 children's fantasy, this musical adventure is a genuine family classic that made Judy Garland a star for her heartfelt performance as Dorothy Gale, an orphaned young girl unhappy with her drab black-and-white existence on her aunt and uncle's dusty Kansas farm. Dorothy yearns to travel "over the rainbow" to a different world, and she gets her wish when a tornado whisks her and her little dog, Toto, to the Technicolorful land of Oz. Having offended the Wicked Witch of the West (Margaret Hamilton), Dorothy is protected from the old crone's wrath by the ruby slippers that she wears. At the suggestion of Glinda, the Good Witch of the North (Billie Burke), Dorothy heads down the Yellow Brick Road to the Emerald City, where dwells the all-powerful Wizard of Oz, who might be able to help the girl return to Kansas. En route, she befriends a Scarecrow (Ray Bolger), a Tin Man (Jack Haley), and a Cowardly Lion (Bert Lahr). The Scarecrow would like to have some brains, the Tin Man craves a heart, and the Lion wants to attain courage; hoping that the Wizard will help them too, they join Dorothy on her odyssey to the Emerald City. Garland was MGM's second choice for Dorothy after Shirley Temple dropped out of the project; and Bolger was to have played the Tin Man but talked co-star Buddy Ebsen into switching roles. When Ebsen proved allergic to the chemicals used in his silver makeup, he was replaced by Haley. Gale Sondergaard was originally to have played the Wicked Witch of the West in a glamorous fashion, until the decision was made to opt for belligerent ugliness, and the Wizard was written for W.C. Fields, who reportedly turned it down because MGM couldn't meet his price. Although Victor Fleming, who also directed Gone With the Wind, was given sole directorial credit, several directors were involved in the shooting, included King Vidor, who shot the opening and closing black-and-white sequences. Harold Arlen and E.Y. Harburg's now-classic Oscar-winning song "Over the Rainbow" was nearly chopped from the picture after the first preview because it "slowed down the action." The Wizard of Oz was too expensive to post a large profit upon initial release; however, after a disappointing reissue in 1955, it was sold to network television, where its annual showings made it a classic. 
Wiki info: 
The Wizard of Oz is a 1939 American fantasy adventure film produced by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Based on the 1901 novel The Wonderful Wizard of Oz by L. Frank Baum, the film stars Judy Garland, Ray Bolger, Jack Haley, Bert Lahr, and Frank Morgan, with Billie Burke, Margaret Hamilton, Charley Grapewin, Clara Blandick and the Singer Midgets as the Munchkins. Notable for its use of Technicolor, fantasy storytelling and unusual characters, over the years it has become one of the best known of all films and part of American popular culture. It also featured what may be the most elaborate use of special effects in a film up to that time.
The film is mostly in Technicolor, but its opening and closing sequences are in sepia-tinted black-and-white, including all of the film's credits. It was directed primarily by Victor Fleming. Noel Langley, Florence Ryerson and Edgar Allan Woolf received credit for the screenplay, but there were uncredited contributions by others. The lyrics for the songs were written by E.Y. Harburg, the music by Harold Arlen. Incidental music, based largely on the songs, was by Herbert Stothart, with borrowings from classical composers.
Although the film received largely positive reviews, it was not a huge box office success on its initial release, earning only $3,017,000 on a $2,000,000 budget. The film was MGM's most expensive production up to that time, but its initial release failed to recoup the studio's investment. Subsequent re-releases made up for that, however. It was nominated for six Academy Awards, including Best Picture. It lost that award to Gone with the Wind, but won two others, including Best Original Song for "Over the Rainbow". The song was ranked first in the AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs list.
Telecasts of the film began in 1956, re-introducing the film to the public and eventually becoming an annual tradition, making it one of the most famous films ever made. The film was named the most viewed motion picture on television syndication in history by Library of Congress, is often ranked among the Top 10 Best Movies of All Time in various critics' and popular polls, and is the source of many memorable quotes referenced in modern popular culture.
Kansas farm girl Dorothy Gale (Judy Garland) lives with her Aunt Em (Clara Blandick) and Uncle Henry (Charles Grapewin). Her guardians and the farmhands Hunk (Ray Bolger), Zeke (Bert Lahr) and Hickory (Jack Haley) are too busy to pay attention to her. Em then tells her niece to find a "place where she won't get into any trouble" causing her to sing "Over the Rainbow". Miss Gulch (Margaret Hamilton) shows up to have Dorothy's pet dog Toto destroyed after he bit her earlier on. Toto escapes though and Dorothy, knowing Miss Gulch will be back, decides to run away. They meet Professor Marvel (Frank Morgan), who claims via his crystal ball that Em is "sick". Believing him, Dorothy heads back to the farm, just as a tornado approaches. Her family and the hands are in the storm cellar when she arrives, and Dorothy, running into the farm house to look for everyone, is hit on the head by a window frame and knocked unconscious. Dorothy awakens and discovers that she and the house have been swept away and are soaring through the core of the tornado. The house eventually lands with a bump.
Dorothy and Toto enter a Technicolor world named Oz and meet Glinda the Good Witch of the North (Billie Burke), who states that they are now in Munchkinland, and that Dorothy's house has killed the Wicked Witch of the East. The Munchkins rejoice that the Witch is dead but her evil sister, the Witch of the West (Margaret Hamilton) arrives and is furious both that her sister is dead and her dead sister's magical ruby slippers are now worn by Dorothy, thanks to Glinda. She promises vengeance on Dorothy and Toto before leaving. Glinda tells Dorothy she can get back to Kansas by following the yellow brick road to see the Wizard of Oz, who lives in the Emerald City.
Dorothy and Toto en route to the city encounter the Scarecrow (Ray Bolger), Tin Man (Jack Haley) and the bipedal Cowardly Lion (Bert Lahr) who wish for a brain, heart and courage respectively. As they approach the city, the Witch tries to kill Dorothy by creating a poppy field which almost puts Dorothy and the Cowardly Lion into a state of permanent sleep, but Glinda intervenes, much to the fury of the Wicked Witch. The friends eventually arrive at the city and are greeted by both the door keeper and coachman (both Frank Morgan). Dorothy and the Lion get makeovers, while Scarecrow gets fresh straw and the Tin Man, who up to now had been stained with rust, is polished. After the Witch sends a threatening message, they meet the Wizard's guard (Frank Morgan), who eventually gets them in to see the Wizard (Frank Morgan), who says he will grant their wishes for a service: bring him the Witch of the West's broom.
On their way to the Witch's castle, the flying monkeys ambush them and kidnap Dorothy and Toto. In the castle, the Witch blackmails Dorothy, threatening to drown Toto if she does not give her the slippers. After Dorothy agrees, the Witch is still unable to get them due to a shower of electric sparks: the slippers cannot come off as long as Dorothy lives. Toto escapes and the Witch locks Dorothy in the tower, planning to execute her once the top bulb of her hourglass is empty. Toto finds the Scarecrow, the Tin Man, and the Lion, and they overpower three Winkie guards before saving Dorothy, but are chased by the Witch and her other guards. They soon trap the foursome and the Witch sets Scarecrow afire. Dorothy, in putting out the flames with a bucket of water, accidentally splashes water over the Witch, causing her to melt. The Winkies are now free and reward Dorothy by giving her the broomstick.
Back in Emerald City, the Wizard still refuses to grant their wishes, but after Toto accidentally exposes him as a normal old man with no real magical powers, he tries to make up for this. He gives the Scarecrow a diploma, Lion a medal and Tin Man a heart-shaped clock. He decides to fly Dorothy home in his hot air balloon, but it accidentally takes off without her. Glinda arrives and tells Dorothy that she has always had the power to go back to Kansas; the ruby slippers will take her back. She previously did not tell Dorothy this because Dorothy had to realize for herself that "There's no place like home". After saying her goodbyes, Dorothy clicks her heels three times and awakens back home in bed, surrounded by her family, the three farmhands and Professor Marvel. She claims the farmhands and Professor Marvel were in Oz, though it is implied Dorothy's visit to Oz was simply a dream.

