Meteor
Released Year: 1979
Running time: 107
Director: Ronald Neame
Cast: Sean Connery,Natalie Wood,Karl Malden,Brian Keith,Martin Landau,Trevor Howard,Richard Dysart,Henry Fonda,Joseph Campanella,Bo Brundin,Katherine De Hetre,James G. Richardson,Roger Robinson,Michael Zaslow,John McKinney,Burke Byrnes,Bibi Besch,
Content: The Soviets and Americans combine forces to save the world from a meteor in this science fiction disaster adventure. Bradley (Sean Connery) is an American scientist who teams up with Dubov (Brian Keith), and his translator-assistant Tatiana (Natalie Wood) later falls in love with Bradley. Hong Kong and New York are hit hard by tidal waves as the scientists race against time to prevent global disaster. Although a fine cast is assembled, nobody stands out, and the real star of the film is the special effects. This 18-million-dollar feature faced real economic disaster at the box office, although four engineers received an Oscar nomination for "Best Sound" for this forgettable film. 
Wiki info: 
Meteor is a 1979 science fiction Technicolor disaster film in which scientists detect an asteroid on a collision course with Earth and struggle with international, cold war politics in their efforts to prevent disaster. The movie starred Sean Connery and Natalie Wood.
It was directed by Ronald Neame and with a screenplay by Edmund H. North and Stanley Mann, "inspired" by a 1967 MIT report Project Icarus. The movie co-starred Karl Malden, Brian Keith, Martin Landau, Trevor Howard, Joseph Campanella, Richard Dysart and Henry Fonda.
After the asteroid Orpheus collides with a comet, a five-mile chunk of Orpheus is heading on a collision course towards Earth. While the United States government engage in political maneuvering, smaller asteroid fragments preceed the main body wreaking havoc on the planet. The United States has a secret orbiting nuclear missile platform satellite named Hercules, which was designed by Dr. Paul Bradley (Sean Connery). It was intended to defend against a massive space rock, but instead was demoted to become an orbiting super weapon now aimed at Russia. However, its fourteen nuclear missiles are not enough to stop the meteor.
The U.S. discovers that the Soviet union also has a weapons satellite. The President (Henry Fonda) goes on national television and reveals the existence of Hercules, explaining it was created to meet the threat that Orpheus represents. He also offers the Soviets a chance to save face by announcing they, too, had the same program and their own satellite weapon. Bradley requests a scientist named Dr. Alexei Dubov (Brian Keith) to help him plan a counter-effort against Orpheus.
Bradley and Harry Sherwood (Karl Malden) of NASA meet at the control center for Hercules, located beneath 195 Broadway in Lower Manhattan. Major-General Adlon (Martin Landau) is the commander of the facility. Dubov and his interpreter Tatiana Donskaya (Natalie Wood), arrive while Bradley works at breaking the ice. Since Dubov cannot admit the existence of the Soviet device, he agrees to Bradley's proposal that they work on the "theoretical" application of how a "theoretical" Soviet space platform's weapons would be coordinated with the American ones.
Meanwhile, more meteor fragments strike Earth and the Soviets finally admit that they are willing to join in the effort. It appears that the satellite has a lot in common with Hercules with the same number of missles. The satellite is christened Peter the Great, and both satellites are turned towards the asteroid. Unfortunately, smaller fragments continue to strike the planet, causing great damage, including tsunami which devastates Hong Kong. On Sunday morning, Peter the Great's missiles are launched because of its relative position to the asteroid. Hercules's missiles are fired 40 minutes later.
Just after Hercules's missiles were launched, New York is struck by a large fragment, destroying most of the city. Several workers inside the control center are killed when the facility is destroyed and the survivors slowly work their way out of the control center, by going through the New York subway system, which has become a trap due to water from the East River flooding the tunnels. Meanwhile, the two packs of missiles link up into three waves, each wave bigger than the last. The Hercules crew reaches a crowded subway station and wait while others try to dig out.
Eventually, the missiles reach the meteor. The first wave of missiles strikes the rock, causing a small explosion. The second wave follows with a larger blast, while the third wave creates an enormous explosion. When the dust clears, the asteroid appears obliterated. In New York, the radios broadcast news good news: Orpheus is no longer a danger to Earth. Just then, the subway station occupants are rescued.
Later, at an airport, Dubov, Tatiana, Bradley and others exchange goodbyes before Dubov and Tatiana depart on a plane for the Soviet union.

