One_Point_O
Released Year: 2003
Running time: 92
Director: Jeff Renfroe
Cast: Jeremy Sisto,Udo Kier,Deborah Kara Unger,Bruce Payne,Constantin Florescu,Ana Maria Popa,Matt Devlen,Lance Henriksen,Eugene Byrd,Emil Hostina,Constantin Cotimanis,Sebastian Knapp,Udo Kier and Jeremy Sisto both voiced the robot head,
Content: Writerdirectors Jeff Renfroe and Marteinn Thorsson make their feature debut with the paranoid thriller One Point O (1.0). Jeremy Sisto plays a computer programmer named Simon J. who gets used as a test subject. His corporate employers are secretly conducting a experiment on him in order to test out a new advertising scheme. Simon receives empty boxes at his apartment, grows suspicious of everyone else, and develops a strange desire for milk. Also starring Deborah Unger, Lance Henriksen, and Udo Kier. One Point O premiered at the Sundance Film Festival as part of the dramatic competition. 
Wiki info: 
Paranoia: 1.0 (originally One Point O, also known as 1.0, One Point Zero, Version 1.0, and Virus 1.0) is a 2004 cyberpunk science fiction film written and directed by Jeff Renfroe and Marteinn Thorsson. The film is a Kafkaesque nightmare in which a young computer programmer is an unwitting guinea pig in a corporate experiment to test a new advertising scheme. The film stars Jeremy Sisto and Deborah Unger and features Lance Henriksen, Eugene Byrd, Bruce Payne and Udo Kier.
When network engineer Simon J. (Jeremy Sisto) begins finding empty plain brown paper packages in his apartment, he goes to great length to try and secure his boundaries, but the packages keep appearing. Simon attempts to find out who is leaving the packages, and his investigation exposes him to his eccentric neighbors, an artificial intelligence robot head, created by Derrick (Udo Kier) who occupies an apartment across the hall from Simon, a virtual reality sex-game, created by the Neighbour (Bruce Payne) who occupies the apartment next to Simon's, and the possibility of a corporate conspiracy. At the same time Simon, who works in IT, is under pressure to complete a code and develops a romantic relationship with another of the apartment blocks residents, Trish (Deborah Kara Unger).
With security cameras watching him constantly, Simon begins to lose his grip on reality, and develops an inexplicable craving for Nature Fresh brand milk. Simon becomes increasingly puzzled as murders begin happening in the building. Simon eventually finds out that everyone else is receiving packages too but were keeping quiet. These people also got addicted to consuming other products like fresh juice, cola 500 and farm fresh meat. One of Simon's friends, a courier named Nile (Eugene Byrd), tells Simon about a corporate experiment to ‘infuse’ Nanomites into people's brains to make them addicted to certain products. He first dismisses it as a lie but eventually understands that it is indeed what is happening.

