Tron:_Legacy
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 126
Director: Joseph Kosinski
Cast: Jeff Bridges,Garrett Hedlund,Olivia Wilde,Bruce Boxleitner,Michael Sheen,James Frain,Beau Garrett,Daft Punk,Steven Lisberger,Anis Cheurfa, a stunt actor, portrays the masked warrior Rinzler. Rinzler is named after author and Lucasfilm Executive Editor, J.W. Rinzler.,Jeffrey Nordling,
Content: The Master Control Program is booted back up in this revamped Tron continuation that sees the return of original star Jeff Bridges as Kevin Flynn, the brilliant computer programmer whose disappearance leads his son, Sam (Garrett Hedlund), to search for him in and out of the computer world. Original director and co-writer Steven Lisberger produces the new film, which is helmed by commercial director Joseph Kosinski. James Frain, Olivia Wilde, Beau Garrett, and Michael Sheen also star, with Bruce Boxleitner returning as Alan Bradley and Tron, the heroic protagonist of the original film. 
Wiki info: 
Tron: Legacy is a 2010 American science fiction film released by Walt Disney Pictures. A sequel to the 1982 science fiction film Tron, it is directed by Joseph Kosinski, produced by Tron director Steven Lisberger, and written by Adam Horowitz and Edward Kitsis, based on a story by Horowitz, Kitsis, Brian Klugman and Lee Sternthal. The cast includes Tron veterans Jeff Bridges and Bruce Boxleitner, who reprised their roles as Kevin Flynn and Alan Bradley, as well as actors such as Garrett Hedlund, Olivia Wilde, Beau Garrett, Michael Sheen and James Frain. The story follows Flynn's son Sam (Garrett Hedlund), who responds to a message from his long-lost father and is transported into a virtual reality called the Grid, where Sam, his father, and the algorithm Quorra (Olivia Wilde) stop the malevolent program CLU from invading the human world.
Interests in creating a sequel for Tron arose after the film garnered a cult following. After much speculation, a concerted effort to devise Tron: Legacy began in 2005, when producers hired Klugman and Sternthal as writers for the film. Kosinski was recruited for the directing role two years later. Since he was not optimistic about Walt Disney Studios' Matrix-esque approach to the film, he opted for a loan, which he used to cultivate a prototype and conceptualize the universe of Tron: Legacy. Principal photography took place in Vancouver over 67 days, in and around the city's central business district. The majority of the film's sequences were shot in 3D, and ten companies were involved with the extensive visual effects work. Chroma keying and other techniques were used to allow more freedom in creating effects. The film score was composed by French duo Daft Punk, who incorporated orchestral sounds to their electronic music.
Disney aggressively promoted Tron: Legacy, which was received with mixed reviews by film critics, who generally praised the special effects and soundtrack but were critical of the character development and the performance of the cast. The film grossed over $400 million during its worldwide theatrical run.
In 1989, Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges), software engineer and the CEO of ENCOM International, disappears. Twenty years later, his son, Sam (Garrett Hedlund), now ENCOM's primary shareholder, takes little interest in the company beyond playing an annual trick on the board of directors; but is requested by his father's friend, ENCOM executive Alan Bradley (Bruce Boxleitner), to investigate a message originating from Flynn's shuttered video arcade. There, Sam discovers a large computer in a hidden basement. Sam then unintentionally teleports himself to the Grid, a virtual reality created by his father.
On the Grid, Sam is captured and sent to "The Games" to compete against other captured programs. After escaping one of the closed arenas he is caught in another and is forced to fight a masked program called Rinzler who, having realized that Sam is a human User after seeing him bleed, takes him before CLU, a virtual avatar resembling a younger Kevin Flynn (created by the real Kevin Flynn years earlier), who rules the Grid. CLU nearly kills Sam in a Light Cycle match; but the latter is rescued by Quorra (Olivia Wilde), an "apprentice" of Flynn's, who conveys him to his father outside CLU's territory. There, Flynn reveals to Sam that he had been working to create a "perfect" computer system and had appointed CLU and Tron (a security program created by Bradley) its co-creators. During this construction, the trio discover a species of naturally-occurring "isomorphic algorithms" (ISOs), not conceived by Flynn, bearing the potential to resolve various mysteries in science, religion, and medicine. CLU, having deemed them an aberration, betrayed Flynn, captured Tron, and destroyed the ISOs. Meanwhile, the "IO portal" permitting travel between the two worlds had closed, leaving Flynn captive. Now in control of the system but stalemated, CLU arranged the message sent to Alan, in order to lure Sam onto the Grid, to open the portal for a limited time. Additionally, as Flynn's 'identity disc' is the master key to the Grid and only way to go through the portal, CLU expects Sam to bring Flynn to the portal so that he may take Flynn's disc and go through the portal himself to impose his system on the human world.
Against his father's wishes, Sam returns to CLU's territory to find Zuse (Michael Sheen), a program who can provide safe passage to the IO portal. At the End of Line Club, its owner Castor reveals himself to be Zuse, then betrays Sam to CLU's guards. In the resulting fight, Flynn rescues his son, Quorra is injured, and Zuse gains possession of Flynn's disc. Zuse attempts to bargain with CLU for the disc, but CLU simply takes the disc and destroys the club, along with Zuse and Gem (Beau Garrett). Flynn and Sam stow away aboard a "solar sailer" transport program, where Flynn restores Quorra and reveals her to be the last surviving ISO. Quorra relates to Sam her history with Flynn and expresses her desire to see a sunrise. Shortly thereafter, the transport stops inside a large warship where Flynn, Sam, and Quorra discover that the transport contains inactive programs, scheduled for rectification (to be reprogrammed or repurposed) to serve CLU and follow him to the real world.
Aboard the warship, Quorra is captured and Flynn recognizes Rinzler (due to his fighting style and use of two identity discs) as Tron, reprogrammed by CLU, while CLU announces his intention to invade the material world. Sam then reclaims Flynn's disc and rescues Quorra, while Flynn takes control of a Light Fighter on the flight deck. After the Light Fighter launches with the trio on board, CLU, Rinzler and several guards pursue the protagonists in Light Jets. Upon making eye contact with Flynn, Rinzler remembers his past and collides with CLU's Light Jet; but CLU uses Tron's spare baton to escape while Tron falls into the Sea of Simulation, where the colored lights on his armor change from CLU's orange to Tron's original white. CLU confronts the protagonists at the IO portal, where Flynn reintegrates with his cybernetic duplicate, destroying CLU (Flynn probably killed by the process as hinted by Quorra to Sam earlier). Quorra, having traded discs with Flynn, gives Flynn's disc to Sam and they escape to the real world.
In Flynn's arcade, Sam backs up the system, and having deactivated it, asks a waiting Alan to take control of ENCOM, naming him chairman of the board. Quorra meets Sam outside, and they depart on his motorcycle. From the rear seat, Quorra witnesses her first sunrise.

