Adrenalin:_Fear_the_Rush
Released Year: 1996
Running time: 76
Director: Albert Pyun
Cast: Christopher Lambert,Natasha Henstridge,Norbert Weisser,Elizabeth Barondes,Xavier Declie,Craig Davis,Nicholas Guest,Andrew Divoff,Jon Epstein,
Content: In 2007 AD, a virus sweeps across Europe. Many flee to the United States where they are held in quarantine camps. At the Boston camp, police officer Delon (Natasha Henstridge), hoping to leave with her son, has used black-market contacts to acquire a passport. Delon's partner is decapitated while they are investigating a killing, and another officer, Lemieux (Christopher Lambert) arrives with back-up. They move in on the killer, a psychotic who could infect the entire city within six hours. The pursuit intensifies after troops headed by CIA operative Phillip Stearns (Andrew Divoff) arrive. Why does the Boston seen here look so East European? Because the film was actually shot in Bratislava. In particular, notice the police cars with European markings. 
Wiki info: 
Adrenalin: Fear the Rush is a 1996 American science-fiction-action film directed by Albert Pyun, starring Christopher Lambert and Natasha Henstridge. It is set in an alternative future in 2007, where the Soviet Union has collapsed and Russia is in disarray. Out of this chaos an unknown virus covers the earth and eventually the United States.
The Soviet Union has dissolved into what is now Russia. Out of chaos comes a mysterious virus that eventually kills everyone who is exposed to it. The virus eventually reaches the United States through Boston, and the city is quarantined. A wall is built, cutting Boston off from the "mainland." All foreign immigrants are barred from entering the US since they may be carriers of the virus. The only people allowed out of the city are those with special passports, only available to those working with a government agency or through the black market.
Officer Delon (Henstridge) is a mother who desperately needs to get away from the quarantined city. She is about to give her son a black-market passport to the safe-zone when she is called in to duty.
A gang has been slaughtered by some kind of creature and the police are investigating. The monster has superhuman abilities including speed and strength. The team of police officers, including Delon and Lemieux (Lambert), are sent into the sewer system to capture or kill the creature. Slowly, the team is killed off one by one until only Delon and Lemieux remain. Delon stumbles across a team of scientists sent to kill the creature themselves. They know the creature is the source of the deadly virus and if it is not killed, it will "explode" and spread the virus all over Boston. Delon is then captured by the creature, along with two others. Delon eventually manages to kick the creature into unconscious in order to gain enough time to break her restrains, grab a pistol and kill it with numerous shots.
Delon is later rewarded with two passports to the safe-zone, one for her and for her son.

