The_Invasion
Released Year: 2007
Running time: 99
Director: Oliver Hirschbiegel
Cast: Nicole Kidman,Daniel Craig,Jeremy Northam,Jackson Bond,Jeffrey Wright,Veronica Cartwright,Josef Sommer,Celia Weston,Roger Rees,Eric Benjamin,Susan Floyd,Stephanie Berry,Alexis Raben,Adam LeFevre,Joanna Merlin,Malin Åkerman,Jeff Wincott,Benjamin Bullard,
Content: A mysterious, mind-altering epidemic has infected humankind, and when a Washington, D.C. psychiatrist discovers that the outbreak seems to be extraterrestrial in origin, she struggles to save her son from infection in this sci-fi thriller starring Nicole Kidman and Daniel Craig, and directed by Oliver Hirschbiegel (Das Experiment). The space shuttle has crashed, and investigators assigned to explore the wreckage have found something unimaginable in the debris -- something from the deepest reaches of outer space. Everyone who comes into contact with it soon begins to transform in ways that can't be explained by modern science. While their physical appearance remains completely unaltered, their emotions seem to be drained and their actions become strangely inhuman. The only people who know the truth about this extraterrestrial epidemic are Washington, D.C. psychiatrist Carol Bennell (Kidman) and her longtime friend Dr. Ben Driscoll (Craig). It seems that the alien virus attacks people in their sleep, and by the time they awaken, the transformation has already taken place. The contagion is spreading rapidly, and as more people fall victim to its eerie effects by the hour, it becomes impossible to differentiate the infected from those who can still be trusted. When Carol realizes that her young son may hold the only hope for saving the human race, she struggles to remain awake long enough to find the boy and prevent planet Earth from becoming host to a terrifying new breed of extraterrestrials. Based on the book The Body Snatchers by Jack Finney, The Invasion was written by David Kajganich and co-stars Jeffrey Wright and Jeremy Northam. 
Wiki info: 
The Invasion is a 2007 science fiction thriller film starring Nicole Kidman and Daniel Craig, directed by Oliver Hirschbiegel, with additional scenes written by The Wachowskis and directed by James McTeigue.
The Invasion is the fourth film adaptation of the 1955 novel The Body Snatchers by Jack Finney, following Don Siegel's 1956 film Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Philip Kaufman's 1978 remake of the same name, and Abel Ferrara's 1993 Body Snatchers.
After the space shuttle Patriot crashes on Earth, a fungus-like alien lifeform is discovered on the remaining parts scattered over US territory. Once people come in contact with the organism, they are become controlled by it once they enter REM sleep. One of the first people infected is Tucker Kaufman, a CDC director investigating the crash.
Tucker's ex-wife, psychiatrist Carol Bennell, begins to feel something is amiss when people seem to have "changed". Her patient Wendy Lenk describes how her husband "is not her husband", and one of her son's friends acts detached and emotionless. At a neighborhood kid's party, Carol's son Oliver discovers a strange lifeform. The mothers speculate about whether the organism might be in any way connected to the reports of a fast-spreading flu. Carol takes the organism to her doctor friend Ben Driscoll to have it checked. Meanwhile, Tucker uses the CDC to spread the disease further, disguising the spores as flu inoculations.
When Carol drives her son Oliver to his father Tucker, a terrified woman runs through the street screaming, "They are coming!", and then gets hit by a car. The police are uninterested in taking a report from Carol, who witnessed the accident. Later at a party of Ben's friend Belicec, Carol has a debate with Russian ambassador Yorish. Yorish argues that given the proper circumstances, anyone is capable of any crime or atrocity and that a world without violence would be a world where human beings ceased to be human.
Ben and Dr. Stephen Galeano, a biologist, discover how the spore takes over the brain during REM sleep. They also find that people who have had brain-affecting illnesses, such as encephalitis or ADEM, are immune to the spore because their previous illness prevents the spore from "latching on" to the brain matter. Oliver is immune to the spore because he had ADEM as a young child. Carol decides to get her son, who might show a way to a cure, back from Tucker. Before she drives to Tucker's house, she joins Ben's team, who are called to the Beliecs' house in a case of emergency. There they witness Yorish's transformation.
When Carol arrives at Tucker's house, he and several colleagues close in on her. He explains that the changed humans, devoid of irrational emotions, are offering a better world and asks her to join them. When Carol resists, he knocks her to the ground and infects her by spurting his saliva on her. She escapes and returns to Ben at the Belicecs' house. They flee when Belicec returns with more transformed people intent on infecting everyone in the house. Galeano and one of his assistants head to a base outside Baltimore, where they and other scientists attempt to find a cure for the alien virus. Carol and Ben separate to find Oliver, who texts Carol his location, the apartment of Tucker's mother, Joan.
Carol makes her way to Joan's home, pretending to be one of the infected who are now in the majority and are systematically raiding the cities in search for the few non-infected humans left. Carol manages to free Oliver and seeks refuge in a pharmacy. There she takes an assortment of pills, knowing she and her son are safe as long as she doesn't fall asleep. She sends a message to Ben informing him where to find her.
Finally Ben arrives, but Carol realizes that he, too has become one of the infected. He tries to seduce her to give in to the new society, but also frankly states that there is no room for people like Oliver who are immune. Carol shoots him in the leg with a pistol she stole earlier from a transforming policeman, and flees with her son. With the infected closing in on them, Galeano picks them up with an army helicopter at the last second. They head back to the base, where scientists use Oliver's blood to create a vaccine.
One year later, most victims of the infection have been cured, having no memory of the events which took place during their illness. Asked by a reporter if he considers the virus to be under control, Galeano replies that a look at the newspaper headlines should be proof enough that humanity is acting human again. At her home, Carol helps her son to get ready for school, while Ben, now her husband (they wear matching wedding bands), reads the morning newspaper. He expresses his dismay about the violence in the world, as Carol remembers Yorish's remark that a world without violence would be a world where human beings ceased to be human.

