Journey_to_the_Center_of_Time
Released Year: 1967
Running time: 182
Director: David L. Hewitt
Cast: 
Content: Time Warp is the alternate title for the moderately budgeted Journey To the Center of Time. The scene is a research center, where experimental time-travel is in its formative stages. The center's directors are informed that, if they don't prove the efficacy of their research within 24 hours, they will lose their funding. A journey through time, commandered by scientist Lyle Waggoner is rapidly set in motion. Zapping 5000 years into the future, the time travellers confront a hostile band of extraterrestrials, who intend to conquer the world. The problem: how to get back to the "present" to avoid such a catastrophe (their first return attempt lands the travellers smack dab in the middle of the stone age). The all-former-star cast includes Scott Brady, Gigi Perreau and Anthony Eisley. Time Warp director David L. Hewitt had been here before in his The Time Travellers (1964). 
Wiki info: 
Journey to the Center of Time is a 1967 science fiction film, directed by David L. Hewitt, and starring Scott Brady and Anthony Eisley. It is a remake of The Time Travelers (1964), and was also known as Time Warp.
Stanton (Scott Brady) is a grouchy boss who is the head of a scientific research company. He has taken over the company following the death of his father. His employees are scientists Mark Manning (Anthony Eisley), 'Doc' Gordon (Abraham Sofaer), and Karen White (Gigi Perreau). Unless they prove that their time travel experiments can produce some results, their funding will be cut off.
Desperate, they push their operating equipment past the level of safety and travel 5000 years into the future. There, they encounter aliens led by Vina (Poupee Gamin) who are looking for a planet to colonize. The aliens find no welcome on Earth, which is in the midst of a global war that threatens the human race. She urges them to go back and warn humanity about the danger, then dies in a human attack.
The time travelers retreat to their chamber and head back. On the way, they detect another time machine on a collision course. Manning tries to communicate with them; when that fails, they fire at it, but their weapon is too weak. Stanton takes charge, boosts the power and destroys the other vessel.
However, all is still not well. They overshoot the present and end up in the distant past, in the age of dinosaurs. Their giant ruby, a key component of the machine, is destroyed, leaving them stranded. However, when they explore a nearby cave, they find it studded with all sorts of jewels, including rubies.
Overcome by greed, Stanton grabs handfuls of the precious gems, returns to the time machine, replaces the ruby and takes off without the scientists. However, on his return trip, he encounters another traveler in time. He hears a radio broadcast - it is from Manning! He is racing towards the earlier version of the time machine. Then he is destroyed by a blast initiated by his earlier self.
Meanwhile, as the scientists leave the cave, Gordon stumbles and falls to his death in molten lava. The other two find the time machine gone. Then it mysteriously reappears. They board it and return to the day before their initial departure. But something is wrong; they find past versions of themselves living at a much slower time rate. The couple hasten back to the time machine to try to rectify the problem, but end up hopelessly lost in time and space. In the final scene, the machine is shown in space among the stars.

