The_Final_Programme
Released Year: 1973
Running time: 89
Director: Robert Fuest
Cast: Jon Finch,Jenny Runacre,Hugh Griffith,Patrick Magee,Sterling Hayden,Harry Andrews,Graham Crowden,George Coulouris,Basil Henson,Derrick O'Connor,Sarah Douglas,Sandy Ratcliff,
Content: Jon Finch stars as Jerry Cornelius, swinging London's leading scientific genius, in this screen adaptation of the acclaimed science fiction novel by Michael Moorcock. As the world teeters on the brink of collapse following a nuclear war, Jerry discovers that a batch of microfilm containing "the final programme" -- the plan for an ideal, self-replicating human being, which was designed by his father -- has fallen into the wrong hands. With the assistance of Miss Brunner (Jenny Runacre), a voracious and bisexual computer expert, Jerry discovers the programme has been taken by his unscrupulous brother Frank (Derrick O'Connor), and Jerry and Miss Brunner must recover it and put the system to work, leading to the creation of a new messiah (which isn't quite what one would expect). The distinguished supporting cast for this thoughtful bit of satire includes Patrick Magee, Sterling Hayden, and George Coulouris. 
Wiki info: 
The Final Programme is a 1973 British comedy-thriller film directed by Robert Fuest, and starring Jon Finch and Jenny Runacre. It was based on the first Jerry Cornelius novel (also called The Final Programme) by Michael Moorcock. It was distributed in the United States and elsewhere as The Last Days of Man on Earth.
The story starts with the funeral of Jerry Cornelius's father, a Nobel-prize-winning scientist who has developed the "Final Programme"—a design for a perfect, self-replicating human being.
A group of scientists including Dr. Smiles and the formidable Miss Brunner (who consumes her lovers) try to persuade Cornelius to locate the microfilm containing his father's Final Programme, which is believed to be hidden somewhere in a family-owned house.
Things are further complicated by the apparent disappearance of Cornelius's sister, Catherine; the activities of his evil brother, Frank; and the involvement of other characters such as his old friend "Shades", and "Little Miss Dazzle", originally a singer.
The attack on the old house commences, with many traps to be breached, until Jerry finally confronts Frank, and a fight ensues. In the process, Catherine is killed, Jerry wounded, and Frank falls into the hands of Miss Brunner. She forces him to open the vaults, but he outsmarts her and gets away.
After Jerry recuperates, he again meets Miss Brunner, who introduces him to her new friend, Jenny. They plot to go and find Frank but in the meantime, Jenny is consumed by Miss Brunner. When they find Frank, another fight ensues, and this time Frank is killed and Miss Brunner takes Cornelius and the microfilm to Lapland, "Daddy's summer resort".
There, the scientists put the Final Programme into operation, in a process that involves combining Miss Brunner with another person to form an hermaphroditic all-purpose human being. At the last minute, Brunner chooses Cornelius over the previously designated participant. The scientists of the project, working against time, scramble to re-calibrate their experiment for Cornelius. He is placed inside a large chamber with Brunner and bathed by solar radiation. Forces are unleashed that kill the scientists. A single being emerges from the chamber, - the result of the experiment is supposedly a new Messiah, but is actually a rather dumpy looking caveman.

