Gamer
Released Year: 2009
Running time: 95
Director: Mark Neveldine
Cast: Gerard Butler,Amber Valletta,Michael C. Hall,Logan Lerman,Kyra Sedgwick,Chris 'Ludacris' Bridges (aka Ludacris),Aaron Yoo,Alison Lohman,Mimi Michaels,Jonathan Chase,John Leguizamo,Terry Crews,Zoë Bell,Ramsey Moore,Keith David,Johnny Whitworth,Brighid Fleming,
Content: Reality and video games merge in this high-concept sci-fi action thriller from Crank creators Mark Neveldine and Brian Taylor. In the not too distant future, mind-control technology allows humans to control the actions and movements of other humans, allowing reclusive billionaire Ken Castle (Michael C. Hall) to create the ultimate video game. It's called "Slayers," and it's a mass-scale, multiplayer online first-person shooter that's as controversial as it is popular. In the world of gamers, Simon (Logan Lerman) is a rock star; miraculously managing to keep his character alive week after week, he racks up frags like Billy Mitchell jumps barrels. But unlike Mitchell's Mario, Simon's video-game avatar is a living, breathing human being named Kable (Gerard Butler). Defying the odds to keep Kable running and gunning though even the most explosive battles, Simon captures the imagination of a global audience. Torn from his family, thrown into prison, and forced to fight against his will, Kable realizes that his only hope of ever seeing his family again is to somehow escape the game, reclaim his identity, and expose Castle's dehumanizing technology on live television. 
Wiki info: 
Gamer is a 2009 American science fiction action thriller film written and directed by Mark Neveldine and Brian Taylor. The film stars Gerard Butler as a participant in an online game in which participants can control human beings as players, and Logan Lerman as the player who controls him. Gamer was released in North America on September 4, 2009, and the United Kingdom on September 16, 2009.
In 2020 New York, inventor Ken Castle (Michael C. Hall) has revolutionized the gaming industry with his self-replicating nanites that replace brain cells and allow full control of all motor functions by a third party. Castle's first application of this technology is a game called Society, which allows gamers to control a real person in a pseudo community (much like The Sims or Second Life). This allows players to engage in all manner of debauchery, such as deliberately injuring their "characters" and engaging in rough sex with random people. As a result, those who work as "characters" in Society are very well paid.
With Society's success and huge profits, Castle (now richer than Bill Gates), creates a second multiplayer game, Slayers. The "characters" in this third-person shooter game are death-row inmates used in lethal battles with real weapons on specially created battlefields. Any inmate who survives 30 matches earns his freedom, while minor offenders only need one match while being limited to a pre-programmed path that they cannot deviate from. There is a lag problem in the game and no communication between the inmates and players, so there is a dangerous delay between the players control and inmates' responses.
In Slayers, John "Kable" Tillman (Gerard Butler) is the most recognizable face and the best soldier in Slayers due to having survived 27 matches, far more than any other participant. This marks him as one of the harder targets and also the crowd's favorite. Simon (Logan Lerman), a seventeen-year old superstar gamer, is the player who exclusively controls him.
While Castle is being interviewed by popular TV host Gina Parker Smith (Kyra Sedgwick), an activist organization called "Humanz" hijacks the broadcast and claims that Castle can use the nanite technology to control people against their will. A faceless stranger gives Tillman, sitting in his prison cell, a warning that the game's mastermind plans to kill him. The stranger works for the Humanz who hack into the Slayer system allowing Simon to illegally speak with Tillman. Tillman asks Simon to relinquish control during the 30th match. Tillman uses the opportunity to escape and successfully drives out of the deathmatch arena. Meanwhile, news outlets report that he has been officially listed as fragged, which saves Tillman but puts Simon in a difficult position; he loses his reputation, humiliated as a "cheater", his bank accounts are frozen and he is under police investigation for helping Tillman escape.
Meanwhile, Tillman is taken to the Humanz leader named Brother (Ludacris), who explains that the mind control technology can potentially be unwittingly used on anyone, leading to the "extinction of independent thought". Tillman searches for his wife Angie (Amber Valletta), who has been working as an avatar for a heinous Society player. After a violent confrontation with security he manages to enter the Society world to break her out. He returns to the Humanz who are able to deactivate the nanite cells in Angie's brain.
Tillman reveals that he was part of the original experiment to use nanites in the brain. The first person to successfully be implanted with nanites was Tillman's close friend Scotch (Johnny Whitworth). In an experiment session, Tillman (controlled by Castle through his nanites) killed Scotch, which led to him being put on death row. When he heard about the Slayers game, he volunteered so he would have a chance to be set free.
He discovers Castle adopted his young daughter, so Tillman infiltrates his mansion to get her back. Castle leads him to a room with a basketball court and, after a song-and-dance number using mind-controlled Slayer warriors as backup dancers, they then attack Tillman, Tillman kills all of the Slayer Warriors one by one, Tillman then fights Hackman one last time, this time defeating him easily by breaking his neck, afterwards Castle reveals that, as the nanites in the other brains are designed so that they could be controlled by the others, his nanites are designed so he could control the others.
To demonstrate, Castle beats Tillman savagely while stopping him from fighting back. Angie and their daughter are brought out after Castle reveals that most of the Humanz have been found and killed. Castle then makes Tillman crawl to his family and tries to force him to kill his own daughter, though Tillman is able to resist. Trace (Alison Lohman) and Gina Parker Smith broadcast this confrontation on every video screen and sign in across the country, exposing Castle and his plan. The interference distracts Castle enough that Tillman is able to outwit Castle by repeatedly suggesting giving Tillman the chance to shove the knife into Castle's chest. After Castle dies, Tillman turns to Castle's technicians, who simply back off and releases the family from nanite control. They walk away, after one states, "Well played, Kable". The film closes with the Tillman family taking a trip down a country road. And the film ends with the word "Game Over" after that the Tillman family enters to the tunnel.

