The_Stepford_Wives
Released Year: 1975
Running time: 115
Director: Bryan Forbes
Cast: Katharine Ross,Paula Prentiss,Peter Masterson,Nanette Newman,Josef Sommer,Tina Louise,Franklin Cover,Toni Reid,George Coe,Carole Mallory,Barbara Rucker,Judith Baldwin,Michael Higgins,William Prince,Carol Eve Rossen,Robert Fields,Remak Ramsay,Patrick O'Neal,
Content: In the William Goldman-scripted, Bryan Forbes-directed adaptation of Ira Levin's savagely satiric sci-fi novel The Stepford Wives, housewife Joanna (Katharine Ross) moves with husband Walter (Peter Masterson) and their children to the "ideal" suburban community of Stepford, CT. Slowly, Joanna deduces that something is amiss; most of the other housewives are vapid creatures who speak in trivialities and live only to please their husbands. Together with new friend Bobby (Paula Prentiss), she investigates this curious status quo. When Bobby also succumbs to cloying sweetness, Joanna discovers that Stepford's husbands have conspired with male chauvinist scientists to replace all the wives with computerized android duplicates. The Stepford Wives became a massive, runaway hit, earning four million dollars domestically. Mega-producer Scott Rudin and director Frank Oz teamed up for a remake in 2004. 
Wiki info: 
The Stepford Wives is a 1975 science fiction–thriller film based on the 1972 Ira Levin novel of the same name. It was directed by Bryan Forbes with a screenplay by William Goldman, and stars Katharine Ross, Paula Prentiss, Peter Masterson, Forbes' wife Nanette Newman and Tina Louise. The film was remade in 2004 under the same name, but was written as a comedy versus a serious horrorthriller film.
While the film was only a moderate success at the time of release, it has grown in stature as a cult film over the years. Building upon the reputation of Levin's novel, the term "Stepford Wife" has become a popular science fiction concept and several sequels were shot, as well as the remake of the film in 2004.
Joanna Eberhart (Katharine Ross) is a young wife who moves with her husband Walter (Peter Masterson) and two children from New York City to the idyllic Connecticut suburb of Stepford. Loneliness quickly sets in as Joanna, a mildly rebellious aspiring photographer, finds the women in town all look great and are obsessed with housework, but have few intellectual interests. The men all belong to the clubbish Stepford Men's Association, which Walter joins to Joanna's dismay. Neighbor Carol Van Sant's (Nanette Newman) sexually submissive behavior to her husband Ted, and her odd, repetitive behavior after a car accident also strike Joanna as unusual.
Things start to look up when she makes friends with another newcomer to town, sloppy, irrepressible Bobbie Markowe (Paula Prentiss). Along with glossy trophy wife Charmaine Wimperis (Tina Louise), they organize a Women's Lib consciousness raising session, but the meeting is a failure when the other wives hijack the meeting with cleaning concerns. Joanna is also unimpressed by the boorish Men's Club members, including intimidating president Dale "Diz" Coba (Patrick O'Neal); stealthily, they collect information on Joanna including her picture, her voice, and other personal details. When Charmaine turns overnight from a languid, self-absorbed tennis fan into an industrious, devoted wife, Joanna and Bobbie start investigating, with ever-increasing concern, the reason behind the submissive and bland behavior of the other wives, especially when they learn they were once quite supportive of liberal social policies.
Spooked, Bobbie and Joanna start house hunting in other towns, and later, Joanna wins a prestigious contract with a photo gallery with some photographs of their respective children. When she excitedly tells Bobbie her good news, Joanna is shocked to find her freewheeling and liberal friend has abruptly changed into another clean, conservative housewife, with no intention of moving from town.
Joanna panics and, at Walter's insistence, visits a psychiatrist to whom she voices her belief that all the men in the town are in a conspiracy of somehow changing the women. The psychiatrist recommends she leave town until she feels safe, but when Joanna returns home, the children are missing. The marriage devolves into domestic violence when Joanna and Walter get into a physical scuffle. In an attempt to find her children, she hypothesizes Bobbie may be caring for them. Joanna, still mystified by Bobbie's behavior, is desperate to prove her humanity but intuitively stabs Bobbie with a kitchen knife. But Bobbie doesn't bleed or suffer, instead going into a loop of odd mechanical behavior, thus revealing she is a robot.
Despite feeling she may be the next victim, Joanna sneaks into the mansion which houses the Men's Association to find her children. There, she finds the mastermind of the whole operation, Dale "Diz" Coba, and eventually her own robot-duplicate. Joanna is shocked into paralysis when she witnesses its soulless, black, empty eyes. The Joanna-duplicate brandishes a cord; it is implied that she strangles the real Joanna to death. In the final scene, the duplicate is seen placidly purchasing groceries at the local supermarket, along with the other "wives" all wearing similar long dresses, large hats and saying little more than hello to each other. The final shot focuses on Joanna's now-finished eyes. During the closing credits still pics show a very cheerful Walter along with his now conservatively-dressed children in the back of the station wagon, picking up his "Stepford wife" from the supermarket.
Throughout most of history women commonly have had less legal rights and career opportunities than men. Women were seen as wives and mothers not lawyers and photographers. The Stepford Wives' best plot is the drastic measures that some men would go through to control women. The men create replicas of their wives and kill the human versions, even if they just as well could have filed for divorce. The new wives don’t have opinions, careers, do all the housework, and will forever remain beautiful. In the film the men create these women to fulfill their own fantasy desires. The robots exist for their personal pleasure only.
The men utilize their talents to create wives that lack character, brains, ambition, creativity, and independence. Their goal is to create women that they can control; wives that enjoy housework and fulfilling their husband's every need. The duplicates are 'new and improved' versions of their wives. They have larger breasts, narrower waist, and higher cheek bones. These robots are sexual objects so they are intended only to accommodate to their husbands desires and to have no desires of their own.
Modern women stand as potential threats to the male-controlled order because they are outspoken, determined, and aggressive. The two women that are seen as the threat throughout the movie are Bobbie and Joanna who were the only women wearing shorts, overalls, and pant; by the end they were dressed like Stepford housewives. Joanna tries to start a women’s association and talk about real problems, while the robots are only programmed to talk about housework. All of the wives of Stepford were once women activists who had goals and ambitions until the men felt that there was a need for change. The women become isolated from the real world; they are attractive sexualized property. These women are helpless, incompetent, and no longer able to defend themselves.The plot also continues a theme of patriarchal critique dating at least from Mary Shelley's 1818 novel "Frankenstein", which, unlike most movies of the same name, is intimately concerned with the implications of men's control of the manipulation of life, a concern of outstanding relevance today, when genetic engineering, DNA therapy, cloning, and synthetic life are all in the cards. Ira Levin made this a theme in other sci-fi novels he wrote, including This Perfect Day (1970) and The Boys From Brazil (1976).

