Two_Lost_Worlds
Released Year: 1950
Running time: 60
Director: Norman Dawn
Cast: 
Content: Veteran cinematographer-turned-director Norman Dawn calls the shots in Two Lost Worlds. Set in the Australian colony of Queensland, the film stars Jim Arness as Kirk Hamilton, an American seaman who conducts an ongoing battle of wills and weapons against marauding pirates. After a particularly deadly skirmish, Hamilton and his men find themselves marooned somewhere in the Dutch East Indies. The film's many subplots are dispensed with during a last-reel volcanic eruption. When not indulging in derring-do, Hamilton romances an Aussie lass (Laura Elliot). If Elliot looks familiar, that's because she later played Mrs. Larry Tate on TV's Bewitched, billed under her new "nom de film" Kasey Rogers. 
Wiki info: 
Two Lost Worlds (1950) is a science fictionadventure film, presenting James Arness in his first starring role (his last name is still spelled "Aurness" in the credits) and Laura Elliott. The film was produced independently by Boris Petroff (dba Sterling Productions Inc.) from his original story. The film was scripted by Phyllis Parker (with later, added scenes written by Tom Hubbard and voice-over narrative by Bill Shaw), directed by Norman Dawn, and distributed by Eagle-Lion Classics Inc., with a 1952 reissue by Classic Pictures Inc..
The year is 1830. The American clipper ship, the Queen, is attacked by pirates in the Hebrides (present day Vanuatu). The ship's mate Kirk Hamilton (Arness) is wounded and heads to Queensland Colony in Australia for medical treatment. While at the hospital, he meets and falls in love with Elaine Jeffries (Rogers), the fiancee of Martin Shannon (Bill Kennedy) a rancher. A romantic rivalry develops and the pirates, who attacked Kirk and his ship kidnap her along with her friend, Nancy Holden (Jane Harlan). Kirk and Shannon pursue the pirates and they soon wind up on a volcanic island, inhabited by dinosaurs.
There are no original dinosaur effects in the film. The dinosaurs appear 58 minutes into the film during the final reel. They were taken from stock footage recycled from the film One Million B.C. (1940).
The film was shot in Red Canyon State Park in Cantil, California


