Conquest_of_Space
Released Year: 1955
Running time: 80
Director: Byron Haskin
Cast: 
Content: George Pal's now-quaint science fiction odyssey concerns a multi-national group on the first space flight to Mars. Pal pulls out all stops in the special effects department, creating "The Wheel" (a earth-orbiting circular space station), rocket launches into space, and a breathtaking near-collision with an asteroid. The film itself concerns the travails of the crew of the spaceship as they make their way to Mars. General Samuel T. Merritt (Walter Brooke) heads the team. Supporting him and along for the ride are his son, Captain Barney Merritt (Eric Fleming), Sergeant Mahony (Mickey Shaughnessy), Jackie Siegle (Phil Foster), and Imoto (Benson Fong). As the ship gets closer to their Martian quest, General Merritt cracks and tries to sabotage both the mission and the crew, babbling about the blasphemy of mankind trespassing upon God's domain. His son is forced to kill him and save the mission, whereupon the crew peacefully lands on the Martian surface and scouts out the terrain like a group of sightseers at Lourdes before returning to Earth. 
Wiki info: 
Conquest of Space is a 1955 science fiction film produced by George Pal which depicts a voyage to Mars. The science and technology were intended to be as realistic as possible. The poster tagline was "See how it will happen in your lifetime!"
Sometime in the late 1950s, mankind has achieved the capability of manned space flight and built a space station in orbit around the Earth, headed by Colonel Merritt, whose son, Barney, a Captain, is feeling a little homesick. The space station's personnel have been at work constructing a giant spaceship to go to the moon. An inspector arrives from Earth with fresh orders from the president: not only is Merritt being promoted to General, but the so-called moonship is going to Mars instead. As General Merritt selects three men and an officer to go with him, his close friend Sgt Mahoney is turned down for being twenty years too old, although three months younger than the General. Merritt's son changes his mind about returning to Earth, and volunteers for the mission.
After the selected crew members watch a news broadcast wishing them farewell, the Mars mission sets off, only for the General to find that Sgt Mahoney stowed away by hiding in one of the spacesuits. En route, something goes wrong with the communication antenna, so two men go out on a spacewalk to make repairs. They manage to get the antenna working just in time as the monitor shows an asteroid, twenty times bigger than the Mars ship, coming at them from the stern. Thanks to the general, the ship manages to avoid a collision, but meteors from the asteroid kill one of the spacewalking astronauts by puncturing an airline, leaving the crew to abandon him in space.
Eight months later, as the crew approaches Mars, the general becomes increasingly disturbed, ultimately attempting to crash-land the ship. Barney, now the captain of the mission, wrests control from his father and brings the ship down safely. Later, as the crew takes their first steps on the Martian surface, they spot water leaking from the rocket. The captain discovers the saboteur is the general; the two struggle and Captain Merritt fires his father's gun, killing the General. Sgt. Mahoney, who observed only the last stages of the fight, threatens to have Captain Merritt confined for his actions.
The crew discovers that Mars is inhospitable and that that it is going to be a severe struggle to survive with their limited water for the year it will take for Earth to reach the right orbital position for a successful return. Despite the absence of water on Mars, like the child in Ruth Krauss's book The Carrot Seed, Japanese crew member Sgt. Imoto plants a seed hopefully in the Martian soil.
The crew celebrates Christmas on Mars glumly. A sudden snowstorm allows them to replenish their water supply. In due course, as the launch date approaches, the seed Imoto planted sprouts into a tiny flower. The joy over the discovery of the flower is, however, short lived as the crew hear rumbling sounds and see rocks falling and cavities opening up in the ground, proving that Mars has underground water. The ground sinks slightly under the ship and even though the ship doesn't sink into the ground, it is leaning at an angle too risky to make an emergency liftoff. The crew then decides to try a more risky but desperate attempt to straighten up the ship: using the ship's motors to open up a new cavity, which does work, and the ship lifts off before the ground collapses. Mahoney decides not to press charges against the captain, so as to not impugn the general's reputation.
Conquest of Space was based on The Conquest of Space, a non-fiction 1949 book illustrated by Chesley Bonestell and written by Willy Ley. Bonestell is noted for his photorealistic paintings of views from outer space, and worked on the space background art for the movie. The film also incorporated material from Wernher von Braun's 1952 book The Mars Project. The two books are straight popular science, with no story line. Except for their speculative element, they are non-fiction.
Had Pal followed either book, he would have produced a documentary, much like some of the Tomorrowland-set 1955 (Walt Disney's) Disneyland television episodes featuring von Braun (Man in Space, Man and the Moon, Mars and Beyond). Instead, writers Philip Yordan, Barre Lyndon and George Worthing Yates created a story out of whole cloth.
Judgments of the quality of the special effects vary. Modern audiences are apt to notice the presence of visible matte lines. Reviewer Glenn Erickson says that "the ambitious special effects were some of the first to garner jeers for their lack of realism." Paul Brenner says "Pal pulls out all stops in the special effects department, creating 'The Wheel', rocket launches into space, and a breathtaking near collision with an asteroid." The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction says "The special effects are quite ambitious but clumsily executed, in particular the matte work." Paul Corupe says that often "the overall image on screen that inspires awe: the Martian landscape, the general's high-tech office and the vastness of the cosmos. The film's budget is certainly up on screen for your entertainment, but it's just spectacle for spectacle's sake." He too complains of matte lines but acknowledges that "the composites are convincing enough for the time the film was made in."
Upon the movie's release, the New York Times praised the effects, but was disparaging of the storyline, noting "as plots go… it is not offensive." The public was even less kind. Erickson calls the movie "a flop that seriously hindered George Pal's career as a producer." Corupe describes it as the "first big flop in Pal's career. It was a major setback that saw him abandon science fiction filmmaking for five years, including a planned sequel to When Worlds Collide." The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction remarks "A truly awful film, The Conquest of Space is probably George Pal's worst production."

