Puzzlehead
Released Year: 2005
Running time: 81
Director: James Bai
Cast: Stephen Galaida - PuzzleheadWalter,Robbie Shapiro - Julia,
Content: Creative special effects highlight this futuristic story from director James Bai. Set in an unknown time "after the Decline," Puzzlehead details the strange journey of an android whose antiquated parts and all-too-human emotions are at constant odds. Bespectacled scientist Walter (Stephen Galaida) has finally gathered the rare parts needed to assemble Puzzlehead -- an android sculpted in his inventor's own image and bestowed with all of Walter's knowledge and both his conscious and unconscious thoughts. Though Walter's unspoken love for the impoverished Julia (Robbie Shapiro) finds him pining away for the girl as he carefully perfects his creation, her favor ultimately falls toward the heroic Puzzlehead when Walter's mechanical look-alike skillfully saves her from a precarious life-threatening situation. Now, with the lines between man and machine becoming increasingly blurred, all of Walter's unconscious quirks move to the forefront of his obsessive personality and the three victims of technology are forced to ponder their fate as the outside world seems to fall into complete chaos. 
Wiki info: 
Puzzlehead is a science fiction drama film starring Stephen Galaida, Robbie Shapiro, and Mark Janis. It was written and directed by James Bai and the film debuted at the Tribeca Film Festival on April 21, 2005 before opening in limited release in New York City on March 23, 2006.
Walter, a scientist living in a dark world where technology has been outlawed, secretly works to create a self-aware android in his own likeness. This android, named Puzzlehead by Walter, acts as the scientist's companion and his connection to the outside world; all the time developing his own personality and self-awareness in the manner of a learning child. The android and his maker turn against one another when Puzzlehead pursues Julia, a woman who does not know Walter has feelings for her.

