Creepozoids
Released Year: 1987
Running time: 72
Director: David DeCoteau
Cast: Linnea Quigley,Ken Abraham,Michael Aranda,Richard L. Hawkins,Ashlyn Gere,Joi Wilson,
Content: From the prolific (if not particularly inspired) "B"-movie cheese factory of Charles Band, this sci-fihorror morsel is set during a nuclearbiological war, and involves an AWOL military team (including the ubiquitous Linnea Quigley) as they take shelter from the relentless acid rain in an abandoned research facility. As it turns out, the building is not abandoned at all but the happy home of legions of greasy, oversized rats and an outrageously drippy man-in-a-rubber-suit monster. The K-Y-covered creep is clearly one of Alien's countless bastard offspring... but the similarities don't stop there, as several intrepid troopers take to the air vents to flush out the belligerent beastie. Veteran exploitation director David De Coteau tries to keep things interesting by rounding up practically every science fiction and horror cliche ever invented (there's even a killer baby that's a dead ringer for the It's Alive! tyke) and drenching everything with blood, slime and alien saliva -- but the abundant goop still can't disguise the fact that there's nothing worthwhile underneath. 
Wiki info: 
USA: 72 min.
Creepozoids is a 1987 low budget science fictionhorror, the first 35mm film directed by David DeCoteau, and starring Linnea Quigley, Ken Abraham, Michael Aranda and Kim McKamy (later known as Ashlyn Gere.) It has remade in 1997 as Hybrid.
Set in 1998, six years after an apocalyptic nuclear war, a group of army deserters take refuge from acid rain in a seemingly abandoned laboratory complex.
They soon discover that the lab was a top-secret government research center, where a hideous (if rather fickle) genetically-engineered monster still lurks.
"Creepozoids was shot in 15 days in a warehouse in Los Angeles. I think the budget was something like 150k. It was a difficult shoot because of all the FX and monster sequences. Lotsa slime and very ambitious. Linnea Quigley starred in it and we had a great time working together. It was my first feature shot in 35mm. It was theatrically released and a hit on video."

