Day_of_the_Dead
Released Year: 1985
Running time: 101
Director: George A. Romero
Cast: Lori Cardille,Joseph Pilato,Terry Alexander,Jarlath Conroy,Anthony Dileo Jr.,Richard Liberty,Sherman Howard,Gary Howard Klar,Ralph Marrero,John Amplas,Phillip G. Kellams,Taso N. Stavrakis,Gregory Nicotero,
Content: Day of the Dead, the third and concluding chapter in George Romero's zombie trilogy is the most distinctly 1950s-style science fiction version of the lot. Set in Florida, as the film begins the dead have taken over the world, outnumbering humans 400,000 to one. The handful of surviving humans have taken refuge in an underground missile silo and argue and yell at each other like players in a Rod Serling Twilight Zone episode. Among the survivors are Sarah (Lori Cardille) -- a scientist who is trying to reverse the process whereby the dead turn into flesh-eating, irrational zombies -- and Dr. Logan (Richard Liberty) -- an out-of-his-mind psychologist who wants to capture the zombies and turn them into domestic help. Things heat up when the military tries to take over the scientific experiments. 
Wiki info: 
Day of the Dead is a 1985 American horror film written and directed by George A. Romero and the third film in Romero's Dead Series, being preceded by Night of the Living Dead (1968) and Dawn of the Dead (1978).
Romero describes the film as a "tragedy about how a lack of human communication causes chaos and collapse even in this small little pie slice of society". This film features Sherman Howard in an early appearance as Bub, and make-up artist Gregory Nicotero playing Pvt. Johnson and assisting Tom Savini with the make-up effects.
Some time after the events of Dawn of the Dead, zombies have overrun the entire world. The remaining fragments of the U.S. government and military hide out in fortified enclaves, attempting to find both survivors and a solution to the zombie outbreak. Survivors Sarah, John, McDermott, and Miguel arrive in Fort Myers, Florida, encounter a large horde of the undead, and escape to an underground Army base in the Everglades, where a small group of scientists search for a way to stop or reverse the re-animation process, assisted by a skeleton crew of soldiers. Dr. Logan, the lead scientist&#160;– also known as "Frankenstein" due to his experiments&#160;– believes that zombies can be trained to become docile, and accordingly has amassed a collection of test subjects, over the objection of base-commander Captain Rhodes. The tension between soldiers and scientists is worsened by dwindling supplies, loss of communication with other survivors, and a lack of progress in research. During a zombie wrangling mission, one of the soldiers is killed after a zombie escapes its harness; whereupon Miguel attempts to kill the creature, but is bitten on the arm, which Sarah amputates to stop the spreading infection. Rhodes then calls off the experiment and demands all specimens to be destroyed.
Dr. Logan, meanwhile, continues his research, being especially proud of "Bub", a docile zombie who remembers some parts of his past life. Sarah is mortified when she learns that Logan has been using the bodies of dead soldiers as food to condition and reward zombies for positive behavior, and devises a plan to escape the complex with John, Miguel, and McDermott. Their plans are thwarted by Capt. Rhodes, who kills Logan; locks Sarah and McDermott inside the zombie corral; murders Dr. Fisher, a fellow scientist; and attempts to force John, their helicopter pilot, to fly them away from the complex, which he refuses.
Bub, having escaped his chain, finds the corpse of Dr. Logan, and in a display of human emotion, becomes enraged, while Miguel, in attempting suicide, allows the zombies to enter the complex and is devoured by the horde in the process. While two soldiers investigate, John overcomes Rhodes and another soldier, steals their weapons, and goes to find Sarah and McDermott, while the zombies kill Pvt. Steele and all of the other remaining soldiers. Rhodes attempts to escape, but is shot by Bub and violently torn in half by the undead and forced to watch them eat his guts while dying. John reunites with Sarah and McDermott and they escape to the surface. Sarah boards the helicopter, only to be attacked by a zombie inside; but wakes to find that the final undead attack on the three was a dream and that they are now living on a tropical island without infection.

