Open_Your_Eyes
Released Year: 1997
Running time: 117
Director: Alejandro Amenábar
Cast: Eduardo Noriega,Fele Martinez,Penelope Cruz,Najwa Nimri,Chete Lera,
Content: The line between dreams and reality become increasingly blurred after a womanizing playboy is nearly killed by a jilted lover in Spanish director Alejandro Amenabar's masterful sophomore effort Abre Los Ojos (Open Your Eyes). It would seem as if Cesar (Eduardo Noriega) has it all. Handsome, charming, and with money to burn, he can get any girl he wants, and usually does so on a nightly basis. Following a birthday party in which he chats up Sofia (Penelope Cruz), the date of his best friend Pelayo (Fele Martinez), Cesar is plunged headfirst into a nightmare world when jealous former lover Nuria (Najwa Nimri) swallows a handful of pills and sends her car careening into a cement wall with the terrified playboy as her hapless passenger. With his formerly strikingly handsome face now twisted into a hideous mass of scarred flesh, Cesar's ugly emotions are now externalized for all to see. Pining for a plastic-surgery miracle to return him to his former glory so that he can seek out Sofia and take a chance at real love, he is pleasantly surprised when the doctors make a breakthrough and Sofia accepts him back into her life. Although all seems perfect for the moment, the formerly soulless player finds that this is only the beginning of his increasingly disturbing journey. Why is Sofia changing appearance and turning into Nuria periodically? And why won't the police and his psychiatrist believe Cesar's desperate attempts to rationalize a world that is growing increasingly surreal? Could it have something to do with a doctor Cesar has seen on television who keeps appearing and attempting to help him out of his nightmare? Peeling away at the layers of his subconscious, Cesar begins to realize that reality is no more than a state of mind, and that in order to get his life back he may be forced to take unthinkable measures. 
Wiki info: 
Abre los ojos (English: Open Your Eyes) is a 1997 Spanish film co-written, co-scored and directed by Alejandro Amenabar and co-written by Mateo Gil. It stars Eduardo Noriega, Penelope Cruz, Fele Martinez and Najwa Nimri. In 2002, Open Your Eyes was ranked #84 in the Top 100 Sci-Fi List by the Online Film Critics Society. The movie's intersecting planes of dream and reality have prompted some critics to suggest comparisons to Calderón's masterwork Life is a Dream (Spanish: La vida es sueño, 1635).
From a prison cell in Madrid, Cesar (Eduardo Noriega), a 25-year-old in a prosthetic mask, tells his story to psychiatrist Antonio (Chete Lera). Flashbacks reveal the following events: good-looking Cesar is attractive to women. At his birthday party, he flirts with Sofia (Penelope Cruz), the girlfriend of his best friend Pelayo (Fele Martinez). Later on, he takes her home and stays the night, although they don't sleep together. The next morning, Cesar's obsessive ex-lover Nuria (Najwa Nimri) pulls up outside Sofia's flat and when she spots Cesar leaving in the morning, she offers him a ride back to her apartment to have sex. On the way there, however, she intentionally crashes the car, committing suicide, and Cesar is horribly disfigured, beyond the help of cosmetic surgery. Sofia can't bear to see him like this and goes back to Pelayo.
After Cesar's disfigurement, he begins to have a series of disorienting experiences. Drunk, Cesar falls asleep in the street. On awakening, everything has changed: Sofia now claims to love him and the surgeons restore his lost looks. But as he makes love to Sofia one night, she apparently changes into Nuria. Horrified, Cesar smothers her with a pillow, yet finds everyone else believes Nuria was indeed the woman everyone else calls Sofia.
While he is confined to the prison, fragments of his past return to him as if in a dream. It is gradually revealed that, shortly after his disfigurement, Cesar contracted with Life Extension, a company specializing in cryonics, to be cryogenically preserved and to experience extremely lucid and lifelike virtual reality dreams. Returning to their headquarters, under supervision by prison officers, he discovers they specialise in cryonics with a twist: "artificial perception" or the provision of a fantasy based on the past to clients who are reborn in the future. He had committed suicide at home after sleeping drunk on the street, and was placed in cryonic suspension. His experiences from about the midpoint of the movie onward have been a dream, spliced retroactively into his actual life and replacing his true memories. At the end of the film he elects to wake up and be resurrected. Convinced his life since the drunken night in the street is simply a nightmarish vision created by Life Extension, Cesar leaps from the roof of the company's high-rise headquarters, resolving to open his eyes once more to real life outside the cryonic fantasy.

