Pufnstuf
Released Year: 1970
Running time: 60
Director: Hollingsworth Morse
Cast: Jack Wild - Jimmy,Billie Hayes - Wilhemina W. Witchiepoo,Cass Elliot - Witch Hazel,Martha Raye - Boss Witch,Billy Barty - Googy Gopher, Orville Pelican,Jane Dulo - Miss Flick,Jan Davis - Witch Way,
Content: This children's fantasy is based on Sid and Marty Krofft's popular 1960s kiddy show H.R. Pufnstuff, which combined giant puppets and live action players. In the story, a young lad with a magical flute travels to a magic island where inanimate objects and animals talk. There he encounters the amiable dragon Pufnstuf, the mayor of the island. When the wicked Witchiepoo steals the flute so she can be named "Witch of the Year" by her cronies, the boy, the dragon, and their pals must somehow get it back from her enchanted castle. Songs include "Pufnstuf", "Angel Raid", "Charge", "Fire in the Castle", "Happy Hour", "Leaving Living Island", "Rescue Racer to the Rescue", "Witchiepoo's Lament" and ""Different"". 
Wiki info: 
Pufnstuf (sometimes referred to as Pufnstuf Zaps the World) is a 1970 feature film based on the television series H.R. Pufnstuf.
Jimmy (Jack Wild) was heading to his school but got kicked out of the school band by his ogre-like band director for a tripping over incident to him by a band member and then ventures on a journey finding a magical talking flute, Freddy and to Living Island, an island of living things from dragons to clocks. Once there, he befriends many of the island's inhabitants, but the evil Witchiepoo (Billie Hayes) is determined to steal Freddy the Flute away from Jimmy to impress the visiting witches' council and the Boss Witch to win the Witch of the Year Award.
Hot on the heels of the H.R. Pufnstuf television series, this film was rushed into production for theatrical distribution, with filming beginning in January 1970. The movie was financed by Universal Pictures and Kellogg's Cereal, the latter of which was a sponsor of the television show.
Sid Krofft cast his next door neighbor, singer Cass Elliot, as Witchiepoo's frenemy and bitter rival Witch Hazel. According to actress Joy Campbell McKenzie, Cass Elliot was "very distant. Not rude or arrogant but she just didn't mingle, which most people were surprised about."
Martha Raye was cast as Boss Witch. The cast and crew expected Raye to behave like a diva, but she instead befriended everyone behind the scenes, even inviting them to dinner. Raye's involvement in Pufnstuf led to her being cast as Benita Bizarre in the Kroffts' upcoming television show The Bugaloos.

