Wild_Palms
Released Year: 1993
Running time: 285
Director: Phil Joanou
Cast: James Belushi,Dana Delany,Ben Savage,Robert Loggia,Angie Dickinson,David Warner,Kim Cattrall,Ernie Hudson,Nick Mancuso,Bebe Neuwirth,Aaron Michael Metchik,Brad Dourif,Charles Hallahan,Robert Morse,Beata Pozniak,Bob Gunton,Charles Rocket,
Content: Just after the turn of the 21st century in L.A., Harry (Belushi) works for a television station that uses a revolutionary technology, virtual reality projected for at-home viewers with 3-D holographic programs. A sinister group known as the Fathers, headed by Senator Kreutzer (Loggia), has a scheme to use it for mind-control. 
Wiki info: 
Wild Palms is a five-hour mini-series which was produced by Greengrass Productions and first aired in May 1993 on the ABC network in the United States. The sci-fi drama, announced as an "event series", deals with the dangers of politically motivated abuse of mass media technology, virtual realities in particular. It was based on a comic strip written by Bruce Wagner and illustrated by Julian Allen first published in 1990 in Details magazine. Wagner, who also wrote the screenplay, served as executive producer together with Oliver Stone. The series stars James Belushi, Dana Delany, Robert Loggia, Kim Cattrall and Angie Dickinson. The episodes were directed by Kathryn Bigelow, Keith Gordon, Peter Hewitt and Phil Joanou.
In the United States in the year 2007, the right-wing "Fathers" dominate large sections in politics and in the media. A libertarian movement, the "Friends", opposes the government, often making use of underground guerilla tactics.
In California, the powerful representative of the "Fathers" is Senator Tony Kreutzer, who is also the leader of the religious sect "Church of Synthiotics" and owner of the "Wild Palms" media group. Kreutzer's TV station "Channel 3" is about to start a new television format, "Church Windows", which creates a virtual reality on the basis of popular shows like sitcoms, using a new technique called "Mimecom".
Harry Wyckoff is a successful patent attorney on the brink of becoming a partner in the agency he works at. He has two children with his wife Grace, a boutique owner: Coty, who has just been cast for the new "Channel 3" series, and Deirdre. At night, Wyckoff is plagued by strange dreams of a rhinoceros and a faceless woman who has palm trees tattooed on her body.
One day, he is visited by a former lover, Paige Katz, who asks for his help in tracking down her son Peter, who disappeared five years earlier. As Paige is closely associated with Kreutzer's "Wild Palms Group", which Wyckoff's firm is going up against in court, their meetings raise suspicions and cost Wyckoff his promotion. After this, he gladly accepts when Kreutzer offers him a job at "Channel 3" with an even higher salary.
In the wake of his new career, Harry's wife Grace alienates from him and attempts suicide. To his disconcern Harry learns that Coty is actually the son of Kreutzer and Paige, her search request was a plot to bring him and the Senator together. Meanwhile, Coty not only becomes a child TV star but also, due to his ruthlessness, a high-ranking member of the "Church of Synthiotics". Grace's mother Josie turns out to be the Senator's sister who disposes of possible rivals with the same brutal means as her brother. Her only weak point is her former marriage to Eli Levitt, leader of the "Friends" and Grace's father.
Kreutzer tries to get hold of the "Go chip" which supposedly will enable him to become a living hologram with unlimited power, and does not even stop at murder. Disgusted by his methods, his future wife Paige gives information to the "Friends". Harry discovers that Peter, a straying boy who has connections to the "Friends", is his real son who was taken away by the "Fathers" shortly after his birth. Kreutzer, who suspects Harry to collaborate with his opponents, has him tortured and kidnaps his daughter Deirdre, while Josie murders his wife (and her daughter) Grace.
Harry joins the "Friends" and enforces the broadcast of Grace's murder which has been videotaped. The broadcast causes a social uproar. "Synthiotics" facilities and campaigning offices of Kreutzer, who is running for president, are attacked. Even a transmission of a fake video that shows Harry as Grace's murderer, and the secret execution of Eli can't stop the upheaval. Josie is killed by a former victim, Tully Woiwode. Kreutzer finally manages to get hold of the "Go chip" and has it implanted, but it has been manipulated by Harry and Peter. Kreutzer reveals to Harry that he is his biological father. Then he dissolves into nothingness. The leadership of the "Fathers" is over.
ABC aired the mini-series over five consecutive nights:

