The_Illustrated_Man
Released Year: 1969
Running time: 103
Director: Jack Smight
Cast: Rod Steiger ,Claire Bloom ,Robert Drivas ,Don Dubbins ,Jason Evers ,Tim Weldon ,Christine Matchett ,
Content: This science fiction fantasy is taken from the stories of Ray Bradbury. Carl (Rod Steiger) has a tattooed torso of bizarre illustrations done by his wife Felicia (Claire Bloom). Each one tells a story about the future, and when Will (Robert Drivas) meets The Illustrated Man in a hobo jungle en route to California, Carl warns him not to look too closely at the pictures on his person. One story has Carl, Felicia, Will and another man stranded on a planet plagued by perpetual rainstorms. Another has Will as a marriage counselor who watches in horror while Carl and Felicia's children plan their deaths. The third futuristic saga has Will observing Carl and Felicia on the top of a mountain as they plan to kill their children. After the three stories, Will is plagued by futuristic nightmares of Carl coming to kill him in this depressing and pessimistic film. 
Wiki info: 
The Illustrated Man is a 1969 American science fiction film directed by Jack Smight and starring Rod Steiger. The film is based on three short stories from the 1951 collection The Illustrated Man by Ray Bradbury: "The Veldt", "The Long Rain", and "The Last Night of the World".
Set in the backroads of America, the film tells three of Bradbury's stories set in the future, with Steiger as a man named Carl telling tales of some of the tattoos he has on his body. The stories are about virtual reality (The Veldt), a mysterious planet (The Long Rain) and the end of the world (The Last Night of the World). Carl is accompanied by a dog and meets a traveler who listens to his tales. The tie-in prologue tells of how Carl came to be tattooed after he encountered a mysterious woman named Felicia (Claire Bloom) in a remote farmhouse.
The Illustrated Man comprises three science fiction short stories from Ray Bradbury's collection of the same name. Howard B. Kreitsek wrote the screenplay that encompassed the stories "The Veldt", "The Long Rain", and "The Last Night of the World", Jack Smight directed the film. Bradbury was not consulted for the adaptation. The author sold story rights to the film in December 1967 for $85,000, but he did not sell the film rights. Since the collection included eighteen short stories, Smight chose three stories and used the carnival sideshow freak who appeared in the collection's prologue and epilogue as the film's primary narrative. As the freak, the director cast Rod Steiger, whom he had known since the 1950s.

