In_the_Name_of_the_King:_A_Dungeon_Siege_Tale
Released Year: 2008
Running time: 127
Director: Uwe Boll
Cast: Jason Statham,Leelee Sobieski,John Rhys-Davies,Ron Perlman,Claire Forlani,Kristanna Loken,Matthew Lillard,Ray Liotta,Burt Reynolds,Brian White,Mike Dopud,Will Sanderson,Tania Saulnier,Gabrielle Rose,Terence Kelly,Colin Ford,
Content: Uwe Boll's fantasy adventure film In the Name of the King: A Dungeon Siege Tale stars Jason Statham as Farmer, a simple man from the Kingdom of Ehb whose goal as the story begins is to care for his family. However, when the power-hungry Gallian (Ray Liotta) invades the kingdom, Farmer must abandon his simple existence in order to rescue his wife (Claire Forlani) and save his king (Burt Reynolds). This film is a cinematic adaptation of the video game Dungeon Siege. 
Wiki info: 
In the Name of the King: A Dungeon Siege Tale is a 2007 fantasy adventure film directed by Uwe Boll, inspired by the Dungeon Siege video game series. It was produced by Brightlight Pictures and distributed by Freestyle Releasing and Vivendi Entertainment in the United States and Canada. 20th Century Fox took distribution overseas. It premiered at the American Film Market on November 3, 2006. It was released in Germany on November 29, 2007 and was released in the United States on January 11, 2008.
Set in the kingdom of Ehb, the story follows a man called Farmer (Jason Statham), an orphan who was adopted by the village. When Farmer's wife, Solana (Claire Forlani), and his son leave to sell vegetables at the town of Stonebridge, his farm is attacked by creatures called Krug. With the help of his friend and mentor, Norrick (Ron Perlman), he fights off the Krug and travels to Stonebridge. However, the Krug kill his son and capture his wife. Accompanied by Norrick and Bastian (Will Sanderson), his brother-in-law, Farmer intends to find and rescue his wife.
The Krug are being controlled by the wizard Gallian (Ray Liotta) who is amassing an army to overthrow King Konreid (Burt Reynolds), with the assistance of the King's nephew, Fallow (Matthew Lillard). Duke Fallow poisons the king and then escapes to make the Krugs his allies. He is then attacked by a group of Forest Nymphs who take him back to the battlefield, where he is forced to fight Commander Tarish. He then is about to be slain when Merick announces that Farmer is Camden Konreid, the king's long lost son.

