Son_of_Kong
Released Year: 1933
Running time: 69
Director: Ernest B. Schoedsack
Cast: Robert Armstrong,Helen Mack,Frank Reicher,John Marston,Victor Wong,Edward Brady,Noble Johnson,Steve Clemente,Clarence Wilson,Kathrin Clare Ward,
Content: Hoping to immediately cash in on its blockbuster hit King Kong (1933). RKO Radio commissioned producers Willis O'Brien and Ernest B. Schoedsack to hastily slap together a sequel. Son of Kong begins where King Kong left off, with foolhardy entrepreneur Carl Denham (Robert Armstrong) facing hundreds of thousands dollars in lawsuits from the damages inflicted by the mighty Kong on the city of New York (remember?) Denham's partner Captain Englehorn (Frank Reicher) suggests that they escape to Malaya, where they make the acquaintance of Hilda (Helen Mack), the daughter of drink-besotted circus-owner Peterson (Clarence Wilson). When her father is killed in a fire caused by Norwegian sea captain Helstrom (John Marston), Hilda is comforted by Denham, who has taken a liking to the unfortunate girl. It turns out that Helstrom was the sailor who sold Denham the map to Skull Island, where King Kong once ruled unchecked. Hoping to escape prosecution for the fatal fire, Hellstrom claims that there's a fabulous treasure buried somewhere on Skull Island and offers to lead Denham and Englehorn back to the Pacific flyspeck. With no place else to go, Hilda stows away on Englehorn's boat and joins the expedition. After an unpleasant confrontation with the natives whom Kong trampled and chewed up in the earlier film, Denham and Hilda explore another part of the Island -- and there they find Little Kong, a 12-foot-high white gorilla who is as lovable as his "old man" was nasty. As the treacherous Hellstrom meets his doom elsewhere on the island, cute Little Kong protects his new friends Denham and Hilda from a variety of marauding dinosaurs, ultimately sacrificing his own life to save the human hero and heroine from a native war party. Largely played for laughs (at one point Little Kong makes an "Oy vey" gesture, as the soundtrack plays a snatch of a Jewish dance!), Son of Kong is nowhere near the classic stature of its illustrious predecessor. On the other hand, the stop-motion photography is quite impressive, at times even better than the animation seen in the original King Kong. 
Wiki info: 
The Son of Kong is a 1933 American adventure filmmonster movie produced by RKO Pictures. Directed by Ernest Schoedsack and featuring special effects by Buzz Gibson and Willis O'Brien, the film starred Robert Armstrong, Helen Mack and Frank Reicher. This film is the lesser known sequel to King Kong, and was released just nine months after its predecessor.
The story picks up about a month after the dramatic finale of the previous film and follows the further adventures of filmmaker Carl Denham (again played by Robert Armstrong), now implicated in numerous lawsuits following the destruction wrought by Kong. Denham leaves New York with the captain of the "Venture", Captain Englehorn (Frank Reicher), who is certain it is just a matter of time before he is similarly served. Their efforts to make money shipping cargo around the Orient are less than successful. In the Dutch port of Dakang, Denham is amused to see there's a "show" being presented, so he and Englehorn attend. It turns out to be a series of performing monkeys, capped by a song ("Runaway Blues") sung by a young woman named Hilda (Helen Mack).
That night, Hilda's father, who runs the show, stays up drinking with a Norwegian skipper named Nils Helstrom, who had lost his ship under questionable circumstances. The two men fight and Hilda's father is killed, their tent burns down and Hilda releases all the monkeys. Denham and Englehorn run into Helstrom, who was the man that sold Denham the map to Kong's Island, and he convinces the two that there was a treasure on the island. Denham and Englehorn agree to go back and try to retrieve it. Later, Denham meets Hilda while she is trying to recapture her monkeys and tries to cheer her up. Despite her pleas, Denham refuses to take her with him when he leaves Dakang. Shortly after they put out to sea, however, Hilda is found stowing away on board.
Helstrom talks Hilda into silence and incites a mutiny on board the "Venture". But the sailors want no more captains and throw him overboard alongside Denham, Englehorn, Hilda and the cook, Charlie. The five land on Kong's Island where they discover the natives blame Denham for the destruction of their village and they are forced to move to a different part of the island. There, Denham and Hilda meet and befriend an albino gorilla just over twice the height of a man. Denham assumes the ape to be Kong's son and calls him "Little Kong". He is much friendlier than his namesake and fights a giant cave bear to save Denham and Hilda. Denham bandages Little Kong's injured finger in return. Despite the fact that Helstrom made up his story out of desperation, Denham finds an authentic treasure. Shortly afterwards, Little Kong, Denham and the girl are attacked by a giant nothosaur which Little Kong kills, while Helstrom tries to escape in the lifeboat but is eaten by a diplodocus. An earthquake hits the island and it begins to sink into the ocean. Little Kong dies saving Denham by holding him above the water until he can be rescued. The film ends with Denham and Hilda throwing their lot in together, as the treasure will make all four survivors (including Capt. Englehorn and Charlie) wealthy.

