Legend
Released Year: 1985
Running time: 114
Director: Ridley Scott
Cast: Tom Cruise,Mia Sara,Tim Curry,David Bennent,Alice Playten,Alice Playten is also the uncredited voice of Gump because an executive thought that Bennent's voice sounded too German.,Billy Barty,Cork Hubbert,Peter O'Farrell,Kiran Shah,Annabelle Lanyon,Chris Lorch,Robert Picardo,Tina Martin,
Content: This lavishly staged and costumed fantasy is about young Jack (Tom Cruise) and his lady love Princess Lili (Mia Sara), and how Jack battles Darkness (Tim Curry) to save both the Princess and the world. When the peasant Jack takes Princess Lili to see the unicorns, the strongest animals around, he does not know that Darkness, with his cloven hooves, yellow eyes, and red skin plans on using Lili as bait to weaken the unicorns which he does -- and plunge the world into an ice age. Soon after that disaster, Darkness captures Lili and, Jack has to rally his elves and elvettes to rescue her and subdue Darkness at the same time. 
Wiki info: 
Legend is a 1985 British-American fantasy adventure film directed by Ridley Scott and starring Tom Cruise, Mia Sara, Tim Curry, David Bennent, Alice Playten, Billy Barty, and Cork Hubbert. It is a darker fairy tale and has been described as a return to more original, sometimes disturbing, fables, from the oral tradition of ancient times before reading and writing were widespread. Like the 5th century Aesop's Fables, and before the sanitized versions by Disney and others, traditional folklore contained harsh knowledge and beliefs in prose, proverbs, verse narratives, poems, songs, rituals, riddles, dramas, and myths.
Although not a commercial success when first released, it won the British Society of Cinematographers Award for Best Cinematography in 1985 for cinematographer Alex Thomson, as well as being nominated for multiple awards: Academy Award for Best Makeup; Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films Saturn Award for Best Makeup; BAFTA Awards for Best Costume Design, Best Makeup Artist, Best Special Visual Effects; DVD Exclusive Awards; and Young Artist Awards. Since its premiere and the subsequent release of the Director's Cut edition, the film has developed a cult following.
"Once, long ago" in a world of unicorns, fairies, goblins, and demons, the Lord of Darkness (Tim Curry) beseeches Mother Night for her protection, lamenting his isolation, exiled underground by an unseen force. He senses the presence of the Two Unicorns who safeguard The Power of Light, and bids his goblin servant Blix (Alice Playten) to find and destroy them. They are to bring him the horns, to create an eternal night of cold darkness, so he can roam the lands freely and ensure sunshine's warmth never returns to the realm of Light.
Mischievous Princess Lili (Mia Sara) goes alone to the forest to meet her friend Jack (Tom Cruise), a "forest child" who is teaching her the languages of animals. He takes her to visit the unicorns when the hidden goblins attack with a poisoned blowpipe dart, hitting the stallion. The unicorns bolt, and Jack thinks it's because of Lili, but she makes light of his fears and sets him a challenge by throwing her ring into a pond, declaring she will marry whoever finds it. Jack dives in, and the surface freezes because the unicorn has been wounded, causing the world to turn to ice. Jack breaks through the ice but Lili has gone. She hides from the rampaging goblins, but when she hears them crowing that her beauty "led the beasts to bay," she swears she will make it right and goes after them. Jack and Lili embody the pure innocence of the male and female Unicorns of Light, suffering and overcoming alongside them.
Jack cannot find Lili, but meets the elf Honeythorn Gump (played by David Bennent and voiced by Alice Playten), the fairy Oona (Annabelle Lanyon), and Dwarves Brown Tom and Screwball (Billy Barty and Cork Hubbert). They believe Lili is to blame for the world turning to ice, but agree to search together for her. They find the fallen stallion and his mate instead and Jack tells them that the alicorn (the unicorn's horn) must be recovered for the world to return to normal. He is shocked when Gump tells him he must be their champion, and they leave Brown Tom to guard the unicorns while they get weapons for Jack.
Lili finds the unicorns, but the goblins attack again and she is captured along with the mare. When she awakens underground, the Lord of Darkness is enchanted with her and begins to seduce her. He tells her that her sins make her a perfect match for him and she is disgusted at first. He tries to impress her with promises of shared power, glory, and immortality. Furious with herself and scornful of the Lord of Darkness' arrogance, Lili pretends to be mesmerized and accepting of his displays of power. She is swept into a Dance with the Lord of Darkness, transforming physically and psychologically from innocent to enchanted and confused to coldly ambitious, as the Lord of Darkness showers her with lavish jewels, luxurious apparel and tables heaped with treasure. The Lord of Darkness tells her there will never be another dawn because he will kill the unicorn by sunset as sunlight would destroy him, he says. She agrees to marry the Lord of Darkness if she can kill the mare and he is ecstatic. Jack and his friends have found them and overhear, giving Jack the key to his demise. From the ghoulish wedding banquet preparations they take giant metal platters to design a sunlight mirror relay, or heliotrope, of the beams of light before it sets, as Lili and the Lord of Darkness prepare to sacrifice the mare. But Lili frees the unicorn instead and Jack attacks the Lord of Darkness while the others relay the light of the setting sun to kill him. The Lord of Darkness shouts that he can never be destroyed claiming "I am a part of you all" just before he is blasted away by the light.
They emerge from the underworld under a starlit sky, but Lili is still under a spell. Gump restores the horn to the stallion. As the world returns to normal, Jack dives into the pond again. When he puts the ring on Lili's finger, she awakens and gives it back to him. Jack invites her to return and runs off into the sunrise as the others wave goodbye.
NOTE: The U.S. theatrical cut ends with Jack and Lili running off into the sunrise together. As Gump and his companions wave goodbye, the shot fades to the Lord of Darkness laughing one last time.

