The_Island
Released Year: 2005
Running time: 136
Director: Michael Bay
Cast: Ewan McGregor,Scarlett Johansson,Sean Bean,Djimon Hounsou,Steve Buscemi,Michael Clarke Duncan,Ethan Phillips,Brian Stepanek,Noa Tishby,Siobhan Flynn,Kathleen Rose Perkins,Phil Abrams,Katy Boyer,Randy Oglesby,Yvette Nicole Brown,Glenn Morshower,Michael Canavan,Mary Pat Gleason,Whitney Dylan,Mitzi Martin,Don Creech,Shawnee Smith,Chris Ellis,Don Michael Paul,Eric Stonestreet,Trent Ford,Mark Christopher Lawrence,Kim Coates (uncredited),Tom Everett,J. P. Manoux,
Content: Blockbuster action director Michael Bay delivers a striking look at a strange world of the future in this sci-fi action drama. Midway through the 21st century, Lincoln Six Echo (Ewan McGregor) lives in a confined indoor community after ongoing abuse of the Earth has rendered most of the planet uninhabitable. One of the only places in the outside world still capable of sustaining life is an idyllic island where citizens are chosen to live through a lottery. Or at least that's what Lincoln and his fellow citizens are taught to believe; the truth is that Lincoln, like everyone he knows, is actually a clone who is kept under wraps to provide needed organs when the person who supplied his or her DNA falls ill. When he becomes aware that his existence is a fraud, Lincoln escapes to the outside world with a fellow clone, Jordan Two Delta (Scarlett Johansson), though the powers that be are determined to see that no one gets away alive. The Island also stars Steve Buscemi, Djimon Hounsou, Michael Clarke Duncan, and Sean Bean. 
Wiki info: 
The Island is a 2005 American science fictionthriller film directed by Michael Bay, starring Ewan McGregor and Scarlett Johansson. It was released on July 22, 2005, in the United States, and was nominated for three awards, including the Teen Choice Award.
It is described as a pastiche of "escape-from-dystopia" science fiction films of the 1960s and 1970s such as Fahrenheit 451, THX 1138, Parts: The Clonus Horror, and Logan's Run. The film's plot revolves around the struggle of Ewan McGregor's character to fit into the highly structured world he lives in and the series of events that unfold when he questions how truthful that world really is.
The film cost $126 million to produce. It earned only $36 million at the United States box office, but earned $127 million overseas, for a $162 million worldwide total. The original score for the film was composed by Steve Jablonsky. It was also the first film directed by Michael Bay that was not produced by Jerry Bruckheimer.
In the year 2019, Lincoln Six Echo and Jordan Two Delta live with others in an isolated compound. Their community is governed by a set of strict rules. The residents believe that the outer world has become too contaminated for human life with the exception of one island. Every week a lottery is conducted and the winner gets to leave the compound to live on the island.
Lincoln begins having dreams that include memories that he knows are not from his own experiences. Dr. Merrick, a scientist who runs the compound, is concerned and places probes in Lincoln's body to monitor his cerebral activity and record what he sees. While secretly visiting an off-limits power facility in the basement where his friend, technician James McCord, works, Lincoln discovers a live moth in a ventilation shaft, leading him to deduce that the outside world is not really contaminated. Lincoln follows the moth to another section, where he discovers that the "lottery" is actually a guise to remove inhabitants from the compound, where the "winner" is then used for organ harvesting, surrogate motherhood, and other purposes for each one's sponsor, who is identical to them in appearance.
Merrick learns that Lincoln has discovered the truth, which forces Lincoln to escape. Meanwhile, Jordan has been selected for the island. Lincoln and Jordan manage to escape the facility, where they emerge in an Arizona desert. He explains the truth to her, and they realize that all the residents are clones of wealthy andor desperate sponsors, who are kept ignorant of the real world. Merrick hires French mercenary Albert Laurent to hunt them down, and explains that he needs the clones conscious in the compound, as otherwise their organs inevitably fail.
Lincoln and Jordan find McCord in a bar. McCord gives them the name of Lincoln's sponsor in Los Angeles, and helps them to the Yucca railway station, before being killed by the mercenaries. Jordan's sponsor, model Sarah Jordan, is in a coma because of a car accident. Lincoln's sponsor, Tom Lincoln, explains some of the situation, causing Lincoln to realize that he has gained some of Tom's memories. Tom agrees to help expose the truth about the organ harvesting, but secretly informs Merrick about the situation by telephone. Merrick sends the mercenaries to their location, but Lincoln tricks Laurent into killing Tom, allowing him to assume Tom's identity.
Merrick, having realized a cloning defect was responsible for Lincoln's memories and behavior, decides to eliminate the four newest generations of clones. Lincoln and Jordan, however, plan to liberate their fellow clones. Posing as Tom, Lincoln returns to the compound in order to destroy the holographic projectors that conceal the outside world from the clones. With help from Laurent, who has moral qualms about the clones' treatment, Merrick is killed and the clones are freed. The film ends with the clones seeing the outside world for the first time.

