The_Magic_Sword
Released Year: 1962
Running time: 80
Director: Bert I. Gordon
Cast: 
Content: In this fun-filled adventure-fantasy, a rookie knight embarks upon a valiant quest to save a princess who has been captured by a malicious magician. Along the way he must battle the usual assortment of dragons, ogres and other mythical beings. He is assisted by a good witch who gives him a magic sword. Unfortunately, the magic fails and suddenly he must find his own magic from within. 
Wiki info: 
The Magic Sword (also known as St. George and the Dragon, St. George and the Seven Curses (the film's original title), and The Seven Curses of Lodac) is a 1962 live action fantasy film, mainly aimed at children, based loosely on the medieval legend of Saint George and the Dragon.
The film appeared on a 1992 episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000. In a highly unusual admission, characters Joel Robinson and Tom Servo said the movie was "pretty good for a Bert I. Gordon film" during a theater segment (though Crow T. Robot seemed to disagree). The writers of the show continued the praise in their Amazing Colossal Episode Guide.
Sir George (Gary Lockwood) is the foster son of Sybil (Estelle Winwood), an elderly sorceress. Not much is said about his background other than that his "royal parents died of the plague" in his infancy. He is secretly in love with Princess Helene (Anne Helm), who is kidnapped early in the film by the evil wizard Lodac (Basil Rathbone). Lodac intends to feed her to his pet dragon in seven days. George wants to go on a quest to liberate his lady love, but Sybil believes he is too young and tries to comfort the youth by showing him a magic sword, a steed, a suit of armour, and six magically frozen knights he will command when he turns 21. The impatient George, however, tricks Sybil and locks her in a cellar, then leaves with his magical implements and revived company of knights. Sir George and his party appear before the king and insist on journeying to Lodac's castle to rescue Helene, even though this angers Sir Branton (Liam Sullivan), a knight who had previously been given the task and who also desires the princess. The knights must brave a series of monsters and other dangers to complete the task. Maila Nurmi known to TV viewers of the 1950s as Vampira has a bit part as a grotesque old hag.
The film is notable for its many mythological and folkloric motifs and references. Each of Sir George's knights seems to be named after a saint or other figure associated with his homeland:
A 1606 book by Richard Johnson, Seven Champions of Christendom, lists the seven as St George of England, St Denis of France, St James of Spain, St Patrick of Ireland, St Andrew of Scotland, St David of Wales and St Anthony of Italy.
Sybil, the name of George's foster mother, was also the name of a prophetess in Greco-Roman mythology, and furthermore there is the PerseusSt. George motif.
The film was shot on the 20th Century Fox backlot and at Samuel Goldwyn Studio.

