The_Postman
Released Year: 1997
Running time: 178
Director: Kevin Costner
Cast: Kevin Costner,Will Patton,Larenz Tate,Olivia Williams,James Russo,Daniel von Bargen,Tom Petty,Scott Bairstow,Giovanni Ribisi,Roberta Maxwell,Joe Santos,Ron McLarty,Brian Anthony Wilson,Peggy Lipton,Rex Linn,Shawn Hatosy,Ryan Hurst,Charles Esten,Anne Costner,Ty O'Neal,Andrew Babel,Cary Jordan,Ellen Geer,Tom Bower,Lily Costner,Joe Costner,Judy Herrera,Greg Serano,Mary Stuart Masterson,Joseph McKenna,George Wyner,
Content: Kevin Costner directed and stars in this adaptation of David Brin's science fiction novel The Postman (1985), first published in 1982 issues of Isaac Asimov's Science Fiction Magazine. Costner's return to directing after his Oscar-winning Dances With Wolves(1990) is a futuristic epic depicting the aftermath of a destructive war. Some 16 years from the present day, America has been turned into a wasteland of separated communities minus a national government. A vagabond (Costner) who travels through these little villages performing Shakespeare is captured by marauders known as the Holnists, and thrown into a totalitarian labor camp run by a Hitler-like dictator, General Bethlehem (Will Patton). Making an escape, the drifter, known to some as "Shakespeare," stumbles across an abandoned U.S. Postal Service jeep and dons the dead postal-worker's uniform. With a scheme simply to get food, he sets out to deliver 15-year-old mail, proclaiming himself The Postman, and discovers that residents accept his lies about a restored United States government because they desperately need something to believe in. This hope leads to the thought that perhaps the United States of America could indeed be restored, so an unusually inspired young man, Ford (Laren Tate) is deputized with the "Neither snow, nor rain..." oath to become the country's second Postman. At the town of Pineview, the attractive Abby (Olivia Williams), who has an impotent husband, asks The Postman to impregnate her. After Abby's husband is killed during a raid by Bethlehem, she is taken prisoner but injures Bethlehem and makes an escape. Pregnant, she spends the winter nursing the wounded Postman in a snowbound cabin. When spring comes, they emerge to discover that Ford has organized an entire squad of mail deliverers who regard The Postman as a mythical hero. The Postman reluctantly accepts his messianic role in the rebirth of the country, even as it becomes clear that the rebel force must ultimately battle and defeat the Holnist army in order to regain the American Dream. 
Wiki info: 
The Postman is an American post-apocalyptic film directed by and starring Kevin Costner, and based on the 1985 novel of the same name by David Brin. The film co-stars Will Patton, Larenz Tate, Olivia Williams, James Russo, and Tom Petty. It was filmed in Metaline Falls and Fidalgo Island, Washington, central Oregon, and Tucson, Arizona.
The film is set after an unspecified apocalypse has left a huge impact on human civilization. A nomadic survivor flees a warlord's army while unwittingly inspiring hope of restoring peace.
The film was released on Christmas Day 1997 by Warner Bros.
In 2013, global society collapses and nuclear war has crippled civilization. Into this wasteland comes an enigmatic and nomadic survivor (Kevin Costner), wandering the flatlands of Oregon. Needing food and water, he trades performances of Shakespearean plays. A neo-fascist army run by General Bethlehem (Will Patton), captures the nomad and decides to add him into the army's ranks. These Holnists are a remnant force formerly under farmer-turned-general, Nathan Holn, who had long since died. Bethlehem has since taken command of the army.
Each member of the large army is branded on the arm with a figure "8." The force is held together through fear, with death as the only punishment for infractions. Bethlehem sees the nomad as a threat and an asset. He nicknames the nomad "Shakespeare", due to his abilities to quote the Bard.
Eventually, "Shakespeare" is selected for a hunting expedition for a lion spotted earlier. He finds the body of a scout and makes his escape by jumping into a river. He later takes refuge in an abandoned mail carrier van with the skeleton of the postal carrier still inside. After burying the postal carrier he sets off, arriving at Pineview, a settlement in lower Oregon. He claims to be an actual postman, from the newly restored government, to gain entry. He claims the new capital is based in Minneapolis and led by a new president named Richard Starkey. He's able to produce a letter addressed to a member of the town, written by her sister in Denver 15 years earlier. They proceed to give the Postman more mail to deliver. He quotes always "things get better, day by day". This gives people hope for life and inspired by him.
The Postman inspires a teenager named Ford Lincoln Mercury (Larenz Tate), and swears him into the faux restored postal service. One night, the Postman is approached by Abby (Olivia Williams), a woman seeking a "bodyfather" to impregnate her due to her husband's infertility. Initially hesitant, but with her husband's blessing, the Postman spends the night with Abby before fleeing the town. Days later, during a raid of Pineview, General Bethlehem learns of "the Postman" and his tales of restored government.
Bethlehem burns the American flag and new post office. Later, he kills Abby's husband when refused permission to have sex with her. Bethlehem eventually discovers the Postman during a battle with the town of Benning, Oregon. Abby is rescued from Bethlehem's army, and the two narrowly escape into the surrounding mountains, though the Postman has been badly wounded.
The Postman and Abby hide in an abandoned cabin in the Blue Mountains. Abby tells the Postman she is pregnant with his child. As spring arrives, the two cross the range and run into a young girl, who claims to be a postal carrier. It is revealed that Ford Lincoln Mercury has left Pineview and organized a postal service of his own, connecting the area's communities. They help towns and settlements to communicate and inadvertently spread the fictional tales of a restored government.
Bethlehem orders the execution of the postal carriers, and the ensuing fights escalate into a running small-scale war. The Postman gets help from a Vietnam War veteran, who teaches him guerrilla warfare tactics. However, his postal carriers are mostly teenagers pitted against a better-equipped enemy. The mounting casualties dismay the Postman, who orders everyone to disband. He writes one last letter to be delivered to Bethlehem, saying the postal service is over and that the restored government is gone. Ford volunteers to deliver the message, knowing that he will be killed afterward. Bethlehem reads the letter but does not believe it is over, and he plans to kill Ford and another captured deliverer. When the two captured postal men meet, however, they do not know each other: The other man introduces himself as a postman from California, meaning that other areas of the country are beginning working toward restoration as well (likely inspired by the Postman's example). Bethlehem realizes that the ideal of a rebuilding, with the postmen as catalyst and product of restoration, is loose and unable to be contained, and that Ford's death will stop nothing. He decides to keep Ford as a hostage, but murders the other postman.
The Postman, Abby and a small group of postal carriers travel west, away from the Holnists' territory. They come to Bridge City, built on an old dam wall. The settlement is run by a celebrity from before the war, Tom Petty (though never mentioned by name, it is alluded to that he was "famous once."). Seemingly trapped between the dam and Bethlehem's scouts, the enclave leader helps the Postman to escape on a cable car to find volunteers for an army to fight Bethlehem's forces. Before leaving, the Postman and Abby spend their last moments together, as they have fallen in love.
The Postman gathers a large number of volunteers in a last-ditch attempt to end the conflict. Using King Henry V's speech prior to the Battle of Agincourt, the Postman manages to rally his troops. However, not wanting any actual casualties from the battle, the Postman personally challenges Bethlehem for Holnist leadership, invoking "Law 7," which he learned of during his time in the conscript army. The law states any Holnist member can challenge the leader and if victorious, take his spot. Bethlehem realizes that the Postman and "Shakespeare" are the same man; he accepts the challenge but is defeated. He does not accept his loss and the Postman's subsequent offer to build themselves a new, peaceful world, and tries to shoot the Postman, but is killed by his former first officer (Joe Santos). The officer then surrenders himself to the Postman, and the rest of the Holnists follow. After Abby and the Postman settle in Bridge City, she gives birth to a baby girl, whom she names Hope.
The story concludes 30 years later, when Hope (Mary Stuart Masterson) attends a tribute to her late father in St. Rose, Oregon. From the modern clothing and signs of modern technology, it is suggested that the country has grown in development to approximate its pre-war status. A statue is unveiled with the inscription, "He delivered a message of hope embraced by a new generation,". A man and his wife stare at the statue of the Postman catching a letter from a small boy—echoing a scene from earlier in the movie, with the man recognizing himself as the boy.

