I_Am_Legend
Released Year: 2007
Running time: 100
Director: Francis Lawrence
Cast: Will Smith,Alice Braga,Charlie Tahan,Dash Mihok,Abbey & Kona,Emma Thompson,Salli Richardson,Willow Smith,Lauren Haley,Darrell Foster,Pat Fraley,Mike Patton,
Content: Adapted from acclaimed author Richard Matheson's influential novelette of the same name, Constantine director Francis Lawrence's I Am Legend follows the last man on Earth as he struggles to survive while fending off the infected survivors of a devastating vampiric plague. A brilliant scientist who raced to discover a cure for the man-made virus as humanity came crumbling down all around him, Robert Neville (Will Smith) was inexplicably immune to the highly contagious superbug. Now the entire population of New York City -- and perhaps the world -- has been transformed into carnivorous bloodsuckers that fear the light and live solely to spread their contagion to any remaining living creature that crosses their path. It's been three years since civilization came to an end, and the loneliness has taken a devastating toll on Neville. By day he scours the city for food and supplies while sending out desperate radio messages in hopes that someone might respond, and by night he attempts to find a way to reverse the effects of the virus by experimenting with his own blood. But time is running out for Neville as the legions of infected watch his every move from the safety of the shadows, waiting for the perfect moment to strike. They, too, long to learn the secret that lurks in Neville's blood, though they will have to take caution while attempting to procure it because Neville will sooner die attempting to slay every last one of them than willingly giving up a single drop. Previously adapted for the screen in the 1964 Vincent Price frightener The Last Man on Earth and the 1971 Charlton Heston action film The Omega Man, Matheson's novelette also served as the inspiration for George A. Romero's groundbreaking zombie classic Night of the Living Dead. 
Wiki info: 
I Am Legend is a 2007 American post-apocalyptic science fiction horror film directed by Francis Lawrence and starring Will Smith. It is the third feature film adaptation of Richard Matheson's 1954 novel of the same name, following 1964's The Last Man on Earth and 1971's The Omega Man. Smith plays virologist Robert Neville, who is immune to a man-made virus originally created to cure cancer. He works to create a remedy while defending himself against zombies mutated by the virus.
Warner Bros. began developing I Am Legend in 1994, and various actors and directors were attached to the project, though production was delayed due to budgetary concerns related to the script. Production began in 2006 in New York City, filming mainly on location in the city, including a $5 million scene at the Brooklyn Bridge, the most expensive scene ever filmed in the city at the time, and in Cornwall, with a $2 Million scene at the Cornwall Coliseum, down Carlyon Bay.
I Am Legend was released on December 14, 2007 in the United States and Canada, and opened to the largest ever box office (not counting for inflation) for a non-Christmas film released in the U.S. in December. The film was the seventh-highest grossing film of 2007, earning $256 million domestically and $329 million internationally, for a total of $585 million.
In September 2012, military virologist Lieutenant Colonel Robert Neville (Will Smith) is the last healthy and immune human in New York City, and maybe the last human on Earth. A genetically-engineered variant of the measles virus created by Dr. Alice Krippin (Emma Thompson), meant as a cure for cancer (which was a success), had mutated into a lethal strain. It spread throughout the world, killing 90% of humanity. The remaining 588 million survivors became predatory, vampiric beings called "Darkseekers" that emerge after dusk to prey on those immune to the virus. In December 2009, Neville had lost his wife Zoe (Salli Richardson) and daughter Marley (Willow Smith) in a helicopter accident during a chaotic quarantine of Manhattan.
Neville's daily routine includes experimenting on infected rats to find a cure for the virus and trips through a decaying Manhattan to collect food and medical supplies or hunt for deer. He keeps vigil each day for a response to his recorded AM radio broadcasts, which instruct any survivors to meet him at midday at the South Street Seaport, where he carefully sits on a bench and waits every day. Neville's isolation is broken only by the companionship of his pet German Shepherd Samantha and interaction with mannequins he has set up as patrons of a video store.
One day, he is hunting deer with Sam and she chases a deer to an abandoned dark building. He finds the deer dead, and realizes that the building is full of infected. To test a treatment, Neville sets a snare trap and captures an infected woman. He lives in the Washington Square Park tenement, which he shielded with UV projectors and iron walls over the windows. He also set up several generators in the house to provide energy for the house appliances. In his laboratory in the basement, Neville tries the new serum on the infected woman, seemingly without success.
The next day, after finding one of his mannequins moved out in the street in front of Grand Central Terminal, Neville is caught in a snare trap and passes out. He regains consciousness at dusk and frees himself, but a pack of infected dogs attack Neville and Sam. During the fight, one of the infected dogs bites Sam. Neville brings Sam home and attempts to save the dog by injecting a strain of his serum, but it is too late, as Sam starts to mutate, which then forces Neville to kill her by strangling her.
Overwhelmed by grief and rage at the loss of his only companion through the years, Neville attacks a group of the infected on the seaport the following night with his Ford Expedition equipped with UV lights. He kills many, but they overwhelm and nearly kill him before he is rescued by a pair of immune humans, a woman named Anna (Alice Braga) and a boy named Ethan (Charlie Tahan), who followed his radio broadcasts from Maryland. Anna and Ethan take him back to his home. Anna explains that they are making their way to a survivors' camp in Bethel, Vermont. Neville does not believe that such a camp exists and expresses doubt about when Anna says that God told her about it.
The following night, the alpha male leads an infected mob in an attack on Neville's house. Anna, who was unaware of Neville's precautions in covering his scent outside the house, inadvertently allowed the infected to follow their trail. As the infected charge the house, Neville stops the first wave with UV light projectors, which they destroy, but he also destroys the second wave with M18 Claymore mines planted in the yard, but finds himself defenseless against the third wave. As Neville tries to find Anna and Ethan, an infected enters and attacks him. The infected retreats upstairs and begins tearing a hole in the roof so others can get in.
After Neville saves Anna and Ethan, they retreat into the laboratory. They seal themselves in a reinforced plexiglass room with the infected woman, and discover that Neville's treatment is working; the subject looks much more human. The infected break in and the alpha male begins to throw himself against the plexiglass, cracking it. Neville then sees the butterfly tattoo on Anna and thinks of Marley who used to make a butterfly shape with her hands and then draws a vial of the infected woman's blood and gives it to Anna before shutting them inside a coal chute in the back of the lab. He detonates an M67 grenade to destroy the attackers at the cost of his own life.
Anna and Ethan arrive at the survivors' colony, where Anna hands over the antidote. Anna later states that the survivors are Neville's legacy, as his fight for a cure became legend.

