Dragonslayer
Released Year: 1981
Running time: 109
Director: Matthew Robbins
Cast: Peter MacNicol – Galen Bradwarden,Caitlin Clarke – Valerian,Ralph Richardson – Ulrich of Craggenmoor,John Hallam – Tyrian,Peter Eyre – King Casiodorus,Albert Salmi – Greil,Sydney Bromley – Hodge,Chloe Salaman – Princess Elspeth,Emrys James – Simon (Valerian's Father),Roger Kemp – Horsrick,Ian McDiarmid – Brother Jacopus,
Content: A special-effects laden medieval fantasy adventure, Dragonslayer centers on the attempts of a young sorcerer's apprentice to defeat a vicious dragon and save a lovely young maiden. Peter MacNicol stars as the young Galen, an aspiring magician under the tutelage of the aging Ulrich (Ralph Richardson). A nearby village turns to the pair for help when their leader begins proffering sacrifices of young virgins to satisfy a vicious dragon. The two immediately set out for battle, becoming even more determined when a courageous princess offers to sacrifice herself to the creature. Unfortunately, Ulrich's failing abilities force Galen into the center of the conflict, where the uncertain young boy must prove himself under fire. The suitably mythic if somewhat predictable story is told straightforwardly, culminating in a spectacular battle against the beast, featuring Academy Award-nominated visual effects. Despite its visual flair and relatively positive reviews, the film received mediocre response at the box office, as some criticized the film's violence as too intense for its intended younger audiences. 
Wiki info: 
Dragonslayer is a 1981 fantasy film set in a fictional medieval kingdom, following a young wizard (played by Peter MacNicol) who experiences danger and opposition as he attempts to defeat a dragon.
A co-production between Walt Disney Productions and Paramount Pictures, Dragonslayer was more mature and realistic than other Disney films of the period. Because of audience expectations for a more family-friendly film from Disney, the movie's violence, adult themes, and brief nudity (the first Walt Disney production to do so), was somewhat controversial at the time – even though Disney did not hold US distribution rights, which were held by Paramount (it was rated PG in the U.S.; TV showings after 1997 have carried a TV-14 rating). Disney later created Touchstone Pictures to produce more mature fare starting with 1984's Splash.
The film was directed by Matthew Robbins (who later directed *batteries not included), from a screenplay he co-wrote with Hal Barwood. It starred Peter MacNicol, Ralph Richardson, John Hallam, and Caitlin Clarke.
Dragonslayer also featured then-unknown actor Ian McDiarmid as the minor character Brother Jacopus. McDiarmid's next film role after Dragonslayer would be that of the villain Palpatine in Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi, a role which he would reprise in the subsequent Star Wars films.
The special effects were created at Industrial Light and Magic, where Phil Tippett had co-developed an animation technique called go motion for Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back (1980). Go motion is a variation on stop motion animation, and its use in Dragonslayer led to the film's nomination for the Academy Award for Visual Effects; it lost to Raiders of the Lost Ark, the only other Visual Effects nominee that year, which special effects were also provided by ILM. The film was also nominated for the Academy Award for Original Music Score; Chariots of Fire took the award. Including the hydraulic 40-foot (12&#160;m) model, 16 dragon puppets were used for the role of Vermithrax, each one made for different movements; flying, crawling, fire breathing etc.
The film was also nominated for a Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation. Once again, it lost to Raiders of the Lost Ark.
Dragonslayer also marks the first time ILM's services were used for a film other than a Lucasfilm Ltd. production.
In October 2003, Dragonslayer was released on DVD in the U.S. by Paramount Home Video.
A sixth century post-Roman kingdom called Urland is being terrorized by a 400 year old dragon named Vermithrax Pejorative. To appease the dragon, King Casiodorus (Peter Eyre) offers it virgin girls selected by lottery twice a year. An expedition led by a young man called Valerian (Clarke) seeks the last sorcerer, Ulrich of Craggenmoor (Richardson), for help. A brutish centurion from Urland named Tyrian (Hallam), who has followed the expedition, intimidates the wizard. Ulrich invites Tyrian to stab him to prove his magical powers. Tyrian does so and Ulrich dies instantly, to the horror of his young apprentice Galen Bradwarden (MacNicol) and his elderly servant Hodge (Sydney Bromley). They cremate Ulrich's body and place the ashes in a leather pouch.
Galen inherits the wizard's magical amulet, and takes it upon himself to journey to Urland. On the way, he accidentally discovers Valerian is really a young woman, who disguised herself to avoid being selected in the lottery. In an effort to discourage the expedition, Tyrian kills Hodge; before dying, he hands Galen the pouch and dies with the words "Burning water..." on his lips.
Arriving in Urland, Galen inspects the dragon's lair and attempts to seal its entrance by causing rocks to fall from the cliff. Tyrian apprehends Galen and takes him to the court of King Casiodorus. After noticing Galen's constant grasping of the amulet during his clumsy attempts at magic tricks, King Casiodorus guesses that he is not a real wizard and complains that his attack may have angered the dragon instead of killing it, as his own brother and predecessor once did. The king then confiscates the amulet and imprisons Galen. His daughter Elspeth (Chloe Salaman) comes to taunt Galen, but is shocked when he informs her of rumours the lottery is rigged. Casiodorus is unable to lie convincingly when she confronts him.
Meanwhile, the dragon frees itself from its prison and causes an earthquake. Galen narrowly escapes, but without the amulet. The village priest, Brother Jacopus (Ian McDiarmid), leads his congregation to confront the dragon, denouncing it as the Devil, but the dragon incinerates him and then heads for the village, burning all in its path.
When the lottery begins anew, Princess Elspeth rigs the draw so that only her name can be chosen, in reparation. The King returns the amulet to Galen so that he might save Elspeth. Galen uses the amulet to enchant a heavy spear (dubbed Sicarius Dracorum, or "Dragonslayer") forged strong enough to pierce the dragon's armored hide. Meanwhile, Valerian gathers some molted dragon scales and uses them to make Galen a shield, and the two realize they have romantic feelings for one another. She discovers that Vermithrax has a brood of dragonets. As Galen attempts to rescue Princess Elspeth, he fights and kills Tyrian. The Princess, however, has descended into the dragon's cave to her death. Galen follows her and finds the young dragons feasting upon her corpse. He kills them and then finds Vermithrax nesting by an underground lake of fire. He manages to wound the monster but the spear is broken and only Valerian's shield saves him from incineration.
After his failure to kill Vermithrax, Valerian convinces Galen to leave the village with her. As the two lovers prepare to leave, the amulet gives Galen a vision that explains his teacher's final wishes. Ulrich had asked that his ashes be spread over "burning water", and Galen realizes that the wizard had planned his own death and cremation after realizing he was not in the condition to make the journey by himself, and used Galen to deliver him to Urland to fight the dragon. Galen then returns to the cave, spreading the ashes and the wizard is resurrected from the flames of the burning lake. Ulrich reveals that his time is short and that Galen must destroy the amulet when the time is right. The wizard then transports himself to a mountaintop and attracts the dragon's attention. After a brief battle, the monster grabs the old man and flies away with him. Galen crushes the amulet with a rock, causing the wizard to explode and killing the dragon.
Inspecting the wreckage, the villagers credit God with the victory, while the king arrives and drives a sword into the dragon's broken carcass to claim the glory for himself. As Galen and Valerian leave Urland together, he confesses that he misses both Ulrich and the amulet, and they both realize that the age of wizards and dragons may be finished. But when he says, out loud, "I just wish we had a horse", as if on cue, a white horse appears to take the incredulous lovers away.

