Cube_2:_Hypercube
Released Year: 2002
Running time: 94
Director: Andrzej Sekula
Cast: Kari Matchett,Geraint Wyn Davies,Grace Lynn Kung,Neil Crone,Matthew Ferguson,Lindsey Connell,Greer Kent,Bruce Gray,Barbara Gordon,Andrew Scorer,Paul Robbins,Philip Akin,
Content: In this Canadian-filmed sequel to (what else?) The Cube, eight strangers awaken in a cube-shaped room with no idea of where they've come from or how they arrived. All they do know is that they've been plunged into a fourth-dimensional netherworld where all physical laws seem to be made up as they go along. Presented with cryptic clues as to the nature of their plight, the tiny group desperately tries to find a way out of their constantly shape-shifting environment, certain that if they don't escape, they will die slow but spectacular deaths. First shown at the Fantasy Filmfest in Munich, Germany, in the summer of 2002, Cube 2: Hypercube bounced around the sci-fi festival circuit until its American cable TV debut over the Sci-Fi Channel on April 5, 2003. 
Wiki info: 
Cube 2: Hypercube is a 2002 Canadian psychological thrillerhorror film and the sequel to the psychological thrillerhorror film Cube. Released in 2002, Cube 2: Hypercube had a bigger budget than its predecessor, and a new director, Andrzej Sekuła. The industrial-style rooms of the first film are replaced with high-tech, brightly lit chambers; instead of traps such as flamethrowers and extending spikes, the rooms have "evolved" and now are controlling illusion, time, space and reality.
The films starts with a young woman named Becky (Greer Kent), showing to be trapped in the Cube. She enters another room, but unknown to her, the room has reversed gravity, as she is pulled up.
Some time later, a woman named Kate (Kari Matchett), detective Simon (Geraint Wyn Davies), a blind girl named Sasha (Grace Lynn Kung), engineer Jerry (Neil Crone), game developer Max (Matthew Ferguson), lawyer Julia (Lindsey Connell), and an elderly woman named Mrs. Paley (Barbara Gordon) trapped in brightly lit cubes, each with six panels on each side which are doors to other rooms. They come across Colonel Thomas Maguire (Bruce Gray), who says that they have to solve the code in order to leave the mysterious place. A wall begins to close in on the group. The group escapes while Thomas stays behind and handcuffs himself. They realize that the wall is non-physical and dangerous. Kate and Simon watch in horror as Thomas is disintegrated by the wall, the suitcase he was holding reduced to tatters. Later experiences around the cube reveal that gravity can operate in different directions in each room, while Mrs. Paley and Jerry realize that they may be in a tesseract. Kate begins to notice the numbers "60659" everywhere they go.
The group realizes that they are connected to Izon, a weapons industry. Mrs. Paley then opens a panel to reveal her and Simon being killed. Jerry thinks that it is a parallel universe, while Max and Julia think it is an optical illusion. Later, while the group are sleeping, Simon realizes that he is in the tesseract to look for Becky, a missing Izon worker. Meanwhile, Sasha, who has acute hearing, hears a noise and awakens everyone. The group finds a floating square in the middle of the room which initially grows into several shifting variations of a tesseract, before expanding into a lethal and rapidly spinning frame.
The group flees into another room, but Jerry is caught and dies after being pulled into the tesseract and disintegrated when the blades shred him all the way down to the atomic level. Kate remains to save Sasha, who is still trapped in the room, narrowly avoiding death as they group in one of the corners of the room where the tesseract can't reach, and eventually it disappears after not detecting any noticeable movement, yet Sasha and Kate are separated from the group. Simon starts to suspect that Mrs. Paley is an undercover spy, so he gags and ties her up, but crystal beams start protruding from the walls. Simon tries to save Mrs. Paley, but when he sees that there isn't enough time (and when the clinging Mrs. Paley refuses to release him) he stabs her with his knife. Max and Julia, disturbed that Simon killed Mrs. Paley, leave him. They start to have sex, but unbeknownst to them, they are in a speeding-time room, and they age prematurely until they turn into skeletons floating in the air. Simon, alone and hungry, goes insane. He encounters a parallel Jerry and the missing Becky, killing both of them.
Meanwhile, Kate finds grisly alternate realities in other rooms. Sasha tells Kate that time and space are distorted at where they are; the tesseract will implode and reality is collapsing. She then reveals that she is Alex Trusk, a computer hacker who is responsible for the creation of the tesseract. She also reveals that when she discovered that Izon was actually putting people inside the tesseract, she tried to stop their operation, but was pursued so she "fled into the only place they wouldn't follow." Kate, however, still believes that there is a way out. Kate finds Simon and stabs him in the eye after he grabs her. Simon then appears behind Alex, old and blind in one eye, proving Alex's time theory. Alex claims that they "are all dead", which causes Simon to snap her neck.
Kate finds that the tesseract is shrinking, and kills Simon with the knife. She looks at the numerous watch duplicates of Jerry's and realises that "60659" is the time that the tesseract will implode (6:06:59) and that she is there to take back Alex's necklace which was filled with confidential information on Izon. The hypercube starts wearing away, and Kate opens a panel in the bottom, revealing a black void. At 6:06:59, she jumps in just when the Hypercube implodes. Kate wakes up in the hands of Izon authorities in an unknown factory. She gives them the necklace and is executed by one of the Izon operatives. Izon authorities then report that "Phase 2 is terminated".
The longer alternate ending included in the special features on the DVD reveals the "owners" to be the government; in the shorter version it is unclear who they are, but it is assumed they are Izon. Kate is executed in both versions, but she is praised for being the first operative to make it out alive. In the alternate ending it is revealed to Kate that she was in the Hypercube for just six minutes and fifty-nine seconds. It was an experiment used for quantum teleportation.
The original screenplay written by Sean Hood, which was subsequently rewritten by Producer Ernie Barbarash, had substantially different plot, theme and characterization, as well as a set of over 70 production illustrations, which visualized quite different traps, environments and four-dimensional concepts.

