Guinevere
Released Year: 1994
Running time: 90
Director: Jud Taylor
Cast: Sarah Polley,Stephen Rea,Jean Smart,Gina Gershon,Paul Dooley,Carrie Preston,Tracy Letts,Emily Procter,Sharon McNight,Gedde Watanabe,Carlton Wilborn,Sandra Oh,
Content: This made-for-TV romance is a reworking of the legend of King Arthur's queen and tells how she forsook her real love and married Arthur in order to bring England together. 
Wiki info: 
Guinevere is a 1999 American drama film about the artistic and romantic relationship between a young student and her older mentor.
The film was written and directed by Audrey Wells and stars Stephen Rea, Sarah Polley, Jean Smart, and Gina Gershon. The film was a 1999 Sundance Film Festival Jury Prize nominee. It won the Waldo Salt Screenwriting Award for Welles' screenplay, which she shared with Frank Whaley's script for Joe the King. It was also entered into the 21st Moscow International Film Festival.
Sarah Polley plays Harper Sloane, a misfit in her snobbish and upperclass family, who has just gotten accepted to Harvard. At her sister's wedding, after being sent out from her hiding place in the storage room with a bottle of champagne, she meets Connie Fitzpatrick (Rea), a bohemian photographer who takes an instant liking to her and nicknames her "Guinevere". Her visit to his flat in order to pick up the wedding photographs soon blossoms into a full-blown affair, and Harper eventually moves in with Connie as he instructs her in the ways of art, in particular photography.
After a brutal confrontation with Harper's mother (Smart), and Harper's discovery that Connie has a history of relationships with young women, the film comes to a climax in a downtrodden L.A. hotel where Connie ends the relationship by kicking Harper out. She returns only once, five years later, as he is dying from cirrhosis of the liver, and meets the other Guineveres he has had. On the rooftop, she describes her personal view of his kind of heaven, which she affectionately titles "The Connie Special".

