Taken
Released Year: 2002
Running time: 885
Director: Breck Eisner
Cast: Liam Neeson,Maggie Grace,Famke Janssen,Xander Berkeley,Leland Orser,Jon Gries,David Warshofsky,Katie Cassidy,Olivier Rabourdin,Arben Bajraktaraj,Holly Valance,Camille Japy,Nicolas Giraud,Gerard Watkins,Nabil Massad,
Content: Executive-produced by Steven Spielberg, the ten-episode, 20-hour miniseries Taken was one of the most ambitious projects undertaken by cable TV's Sci-Fi Network, ultimately costing 40 million dollars -- a price that proved well worth it, inasmuch as the series posted the network's highest-ever ratings. Covering a period from 1947 to the present, the story focused on three different families, each of whom was profoundly affected by extraterrestrial visitation. The Keys family was headed by WWII bomber pilot Russell Keys (Steve Burton), who spent virtually his entire adult life haunted by his "close encounter" with aliens. The Clarkes were originally represented by lonely Texas waitress Sally Clarke (Catherine Dent), who was impregnated by a charming stranger (Eric Close) who turned out to be an alien survivor of the Roswell crash. And the lives of the Crawfords were dictated by ruthless Army officer Owen Crawford (Joel Gretsch), who was determined to prove that the government had covered up the truth about Roswell by dedicating his life to tracking down all space aliens and their half-human descendants. The story was narrated by Allie Keys (Dakota Fanning), a "hybrid" child of the present day, whose story determined the outcome of the final episodes. Boasting impressive computer-generated special effects and eye-popping facial makeup, Taken was seen over a two-week period, beginning December 2, 2002, and ending on December 13. 
Wiki info: 
Taken is a 2008 French-American action thriller film co-written and produced by Luc Besson, starring Liam Neeson, Maggie Grace and Famke Janssen. The screenplay was written by Besson and Robert Mark Kamen, and directed by Pierre Morel. Neeson plays a former U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) operative who sets about tracking down his daughter after she is kidnapped by human traffickers while travelling in France. The sequel, Taken 2, was released on 3 October 2012.
Taken was a box office success and received mixed reviews upon its release. Numerous media outlets have cited the film as a turning point in Neeson's career that redefined the actor as a successful action film star.
Former U.S. Central Intelligence Agency operative Bryan Mills retires in order to have a closer relationship with his teenage daughter, Kim. She lives with her mother, Lenore, and her wealthy step-father, Stuart, in California. During Kim's 17th birthday, he buys her an expensive karaoke machine only to be upstaged by Stuart, who surprises her with a horse.
While working as security with former colleagues, Bryan saves pop star Sheerah (Holly Valance) from a knife-wielding assailant after a concert. Sheerah, grateful, agrees to tutor Kim after Bryan says she aspires to be a singer. At a lunch soon after, Kim asks Bryan for permission to travel to Paris with her older friend Amanda. Bryan balks at the two girls travelling alone, but relents when Lenore complains that he is overprotective after being absent for most of Kim's life. He gives Kim a new cellphone that can work internationally, and makes her promise to call every day. At Los Angeles International Airport, he is dismayed to discover the girls are not staying in Paris, but are actually following U2 during their European tour, something Lenore knew but kept from him.
Arriving in Paris-Charles de Gaulle Airport, Kim and Amanda meet Peter, who offers to share a cab with them and invites them to a party. This is a ruse to gather information about where they are staying. At the apartment, Kim discovers that Amanda's cousins, with whom they are staying, and who are meant to be keeping an eye on them, are in fact in Spain. While talking to Bryan on the phone in the bathroom, Kim sees Amanda being kidnapped by intruders. Bryan instructs her to go to the nearest room and hide under a bed. He explains that when the men find her, she has to shout out their physical descriptions. Kim is pulled out from under the bed, and she complies with her father's instructions. When a kidnapper picks up the phone, Bryan tries to bargain with him, threatening to kill him if he does not let her go. The kidnapper replies only "good luck" and destroys the phone.
Bryan shows up at Stuart and Lenore's house, and tells her about their daughter's kidnapping. Bryan's former colleague Sam tells him that based on the recording, Kim has probably been taken by an Albanian human trafficking ring that has recently begun abducting female tourists. He also says that if she is not rescued within ninety-six hours, she will likely never be found. Bryan travels to Paris on one of Stuart's private jets and finds Peter at the airport attempting to lure another attractive tourist. After a confrontation and chase, Peter is hit and killed by a passing truck before Bryan can interrogate him.
Bryan then seeks out Jean-Claude, a former French intelligence officer who now works a desk job. Jean-Claude is relatively unhelpful but does direct Bryan to a district where an East European gang are prostituting women. Jean-Claude afterwards has the police put a tail on Bryan and soon warns Bryan that his vigilante methods will result in him getting kicked out of France, but Bryan manages to avoid arrest.
Bryan follows one gangster to a makeshift brothel at a construction site, where he finds a girl wearing Kim's jacket. He fights off the brothel guards and escapes with the girl. After the girl awakens, she gives Bryan enough information about the house where she met Kim to allow him to find it.
Bryan is let inside the Albanian's house by feigning to be a corrupt policeman, sent to renew its extortion "contract" with the brothel. He tricks the thugs inside into saying a few words and phrases, and recognizes a voice: Marko, the kidnapper he spoke to on the phone. He wounds Marko and kills the rest. Searching the house, he finds several captive teens, including Amanda, who is dead from an apparent overdose. In the basement of the house, Bryan straps Marko into a makeshift electric chair and tortures him with electric current until he talks: Kim, being a virgin, was very valuable on the black market, and was sold to an auctioneer named Patrice Saint-Clair. Bryan leaves Marko to die from electrocution and visits Jean-Claude at home. Having deduced that Jean-Claude is taking kickbacks from the kidnappers, Bryan shoots Jean-Claude's wife in the arm and threatens to kill her unless Jean-Claude gives up Saint-Clair's home address.
Bryan infiltrates Saint-Clair's mansion, where a large party is the facade for an auction of girls in the basement. His daughter is the last offering. Bryan forces a Middle Eastern bidder to purchase her, but is captured after they exit the room. Bryan frees himself and kills Saint-Clair's henchmen. He forces Saint-Clair to reveal where Kim has been taken before killing him. Bryan races to a luxury yacht owned by Raman, a sheikh. Jumping aboard, Bryan kills the boat's guards in a violent battle, and finally confronts the sheikh in his boudoir. Despite the sheikh holding a knife to Kim's throat, Bryan shoots him in the head and rescues his daughter. They return to the U.S. where she is reunited with her mother and stepfather. Afterward, Bryan takes Kim to see Sheerah for her first singing lesson.

