Never_Let_Me_Go
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 104
Director: Mark Romanek
Cast: Carey Mulligan,Isobel Meikle-Small,Keira Knightley,Ella Purnell,Andrew Garfield,Charlie Rowe,Sally Hawkins,Charlotte Rampling,Nathalie Richard,Domhnall Gleeson,Andrea Riseborough,
Content: Director Mark Romanek (One Hour Photo) and writer Alex Garland (28 Days Later) team up to adapt Remains of the Day author Kazuo Ishiguro's introspective sci-fi novel about a group of unsuspecting boarding-school students who make a horrifying discovery about themselves. Sheltered teens Kathy (Carey Mulligan), Ruth (Keira Knightley), and Tommy (Andrew Garfield) all grew up at a remote English boarding school, and now they're hungry to explore the real world. Their dreams of freedom are soon stifled, however, upon learning that they are nothing more than clones created specifically for organ harvesting. Now, in addition to confronting their own mortality, all three must come to terms with a lifetime of emotions and unfulfilled longings while pondering their true purpose for being. 
Wiki info: 
Never Let Me Go is a 2010 British dystopian science fiction drama film based on Kazuo Ishiguro's 2005 novel of the same name. The film was directed by Mark Romanek from a screenplay by Alex Garland. Never Let Me Go is set in an alternate history and centers on Kathy, Ruth and Tommy (portrayed by Carey Mulligan, Keira Knightley and Andrew Garfield respectively), who become entangled in a love triangle. Principal photography began in April 2009 and lasted several weeks. The movie was filmed at various locations, including Andrew Melville Hall. Never Let Me Go was produced by DNA Films and Film4 on a $15 million budget.
Prior to the book's publication, Garland had approached the film's producers—Andrew Macdonald and Andrew Reich—about a possible film, and wrote a 96-page script. The producers initially had trouble finding an actress to play Kathy. Mulligan was cast in the role after Peter Rice, the head of the company financing the film, recommended her by text message while watching her performance in An Education. Mulligan, a fan of the book, enthusiastically accepted the role, as it had long been a wish of hers to have the opportunity to play the part. The film's message and themes were the factors that attracted Garfield to become a part of the film.
Never Let Me Go premiered at the 37th annual Telluride Film Festival in September 2010, where the audience positively responded to its message. The film was also screened at festivals including the 2010 Toronto International Film Festival, and the 54th London Film Festival (which it opened). The film was distributed by Fox Searchlight Pictures to cinemas in the United States on 15 September 2010, where it was given a limited release. It opened on 14 January 2011 in the United Kingdom. In the United States, Never Let Me Go opened at four theatres, grossing over $111,000 during its first weekend, eventually growing to $2.5 million. The movie got off to a better start in its first weekend in the UK, earning £625,000 (US$1,009,750) and taking ninth place at the box office.
To date, Never Let Me Go has earned $9.4 million at the box office and an additional $1.8 million in DVD sales revenue. Never Let Me Go was met with generally positive reviews from film critics, with most reviewers praising the cast's overall performances. It was placed on several critics' top ten lists for the year.
The film begins with on-screen captions explaining that a medical breakthrough in 1952 has permitted the human lifespan to be extended beyond 100 years. The first shot shows a young man lying on an operating table smiling at a woman observing from the other side of the glass window. The woman is 28-year-old Kathy H (Carey Mulligan), she narrates the movie and reminisces about her childhood at a boarding school called Hailsham House, as well as her adult life after leaving the school. The first act of the film depicts the young Kathy (Izzy Meikle-Small), along with her friends Tommy (Charlie Rowe) and Ruth (Ella Purnell), spending their childhood at Hailsham in the late 1970s. The school seems to be somewhat unusual. Students are encouraged to create artwork such as paintings and poetry instead of science and maths normal for school children, and their best work gets into "the Gallery." There is also a strong emphasis on "keeping yourselves healthy inside" especially when it comes to smoking. At one point, a new teacher, Miss Lucy (Sally Hawkins) quietly informs the students of their nature: they exist only as organ donors for transplants, and will die - or, rather, "complete" - in their early adulthood. The following day Miss Lucy is "no longer working at Hailsham." As time passes, Kathy and Tommy fall in love, but Tommy falls into a manipulative relationship with Ruth. Ruth and Tommy stay together throughout the rest of their time at Hailsham.
In the second act of the film, the three friends, now young adults, are rehoused in cottages on a farm. They are permitted to leave the grounds if they wish but are resigned to their eventual fate, seeing it as inevitable. At the farm, they meet former pupils of schools similar to theirs, two of whom one day sight a woman in a nearby town who they believe to be a "possible" for Ruth, her "original" - the person she was cloned from. Ruth is ecstatic at the prospect, but when she, Kathy, Tommy, and the two witnesses travel to the coast to re-examine the woman, it turns out there is very little resemblance. Ruth, bitter and disillusioned, rages that all donors are "modeled on trash", meaning that they are cloned from the people lowest in society, or, in her words, "in the gutter."
From the others, Kathy and her friends hear rumors of the possibility of "deferral" – a temporary reprieve from organ donation for donors who are in love and can somehow prove it. Tommy becomes convinced that the Gallery at Hailsham was intended to look into their souls and that artwork sent to the Gallery will be able to verify true love. Hoping to hear a declaration of love from him, she is visibly distressed when he reveals that his failure to send artwork to the Gallery as a child means he cannot apply with Ruth for a deferral. The relationship between Tommy and Ruth becomes sexual, putting a strain on Kathy's friendships with the two. Kathy, feeling the need to distance herself, leaves the cottages to become a "carer" – a clone who is given a temporary reprieve from donation to do the job of supporting and comforting donors as they give up their organs. Tommy and Ruth's relationship ends shortly before her departure, though it is not depicted but revealed through Kathy's narration.
In the third and final act of the film, ten years later, Kathy is working as a carer. She has watched many clones gradually "complete" as their organs are harvested. Kathy has not seen Ruth or Tommy since the cottages. While working as a carer, Kathy happens to meet Ruth again, who is frail and unwell after two donations. They find Tommy, who is also weakened, and the three of them drive to the sea as a short trip at Ruth's request. There, Ruth asks for their forgiveness for keeping them apart. She admits she has always known that Kathy and Tommy were meant to be together because their love for each other was real, whereas Ruth was with Tommy because she was jealous of his closeness to Kathy and afraid to be "left alone." She tells them it was the worst thing she ever did and now she wants to put it right, then claims she has found a means to do so: she has found the address of the gallery owner, "Madame" from Hailsham, whom she thinks may grant deferrals to couples in love. With some reluctance due to skepticism, Kathy accepts the opportunity. Shortly afterward, Ruth dies on the operating table when her liver is extracted.
Kathy and Tommy finally begin a relationship, sharing a passionate kiss after a night of Kathy's reading to him, before getting into bed together. Tommy explains to Kathy that he has been creating art in the hope that it will convince Madame to give them a deferral. He and Kathy drive to visit Madame, who lives with the headmistress of Hailsham. The two teachers sympathetically tell them that there have never been any such deferrals. They also explain that the purpose of the Gallery was not to look into their souls, but to determine if they had souls at all. Hailsham had been, in fact, the last remaining place to consider the ethical implications of the donor program. It had closed down owing to lack of funding. As Kathy and Tommy take in the news as they drive away, Tommy requests Kathy to stop the car to let him out and subsequently breaks down in an explosion of rage and frustration. Kathy consoles him, just as she had done during their days at Hailsham when Tommy would fall into fits of rage when bullied, and the two weep in each other's arms. The ending sequence of the movie returns to the first shot of the movie where Tommy is being anesthetized on the operating table for what would be his last organ donation, while looking and smiling at Kathy who is standing on the other side of the glass window.
The film ends with Kathy still living, but knowing that her organ donations will begin in one month. She has come to an acceptance of her fate. Contemplating the ruins of her childhood, her voice-over ponders whether her fate is any different from the people who will receive her organs; after all, "we all complete."

