The_Clan_of_the_Cave_Bear
Released Year: 1986
Running time: 98
Director: Michael Chapman
Cast: Daryl Hannah,Pamela Reed,James Remar,Thomas G. Waites,John Doolittle,Curtis Armstrong,Martin Doyle,Adel C. Hammoud,Tony Montanaro,Mike Muscat,John Wardlow,Keith Wardlow,Karen Austin,Barbara Duncan,Gloria Lee,Janne Mortil,Lycia Naff,Linda Quibell,Bernadette Sabath,Penny Smith,Joey Cramer,Rory L. Crowley,Nicole Eggert,Emma Floria,Pierre Lamielle,Mary Reid,Samantha Ostry,Shane Punt,Christiane Boyce and Catherine Flather,Natino Bellatoni,Rick Valiquette,Alan Waltman,Paul Carafotes,Bart the Bear,
Content: Cinematographer Michael Chapman directed this John Sayles adaptation of Jean M. Auel's best-selling ode to Cro-Magnon women. The story begins at the moment in pre-history when the last of the Neanderthal men were becoming extinct and the superior race of Cro-Magnons were starting to supersede them. Focusing on a tribe of wandering Neanderthals who adopt a young girl named, Ayla (played as an adult by Daryl Hannah). She grows tall, lithe, and smart. The Neanderthals quickly accept her into their tribe, but once a tribal member, Ayla begins to question the tribe's male chauvinistic presumptions. Unable to conceive of why only men are given weapons, she takes it upon herself to learn how to use a slingshot. She then questions the tribe's assumptions concerning sexual politics. She learns to count and becomes the assistant to the local medicine expert. As the seasons wear on, the tribe utilizes Ayla's knowledge for their own good while Ayla's continues to try the patience of the tribe with her unspeakable feminist demands. 
Wiki info: 
The Clan of the Cave Bear is a 1986 film based on the book of the same name by Jean M. Auel and was directed by Michael Chapman.
The film stars Daryl Hannah as Ayla, a young Cro-Magnon woman who was separated from her family and orphaned during an earthquake and found by a group of Neanderthals.
Dialogue is conducted mostly through a form of sign language which is translated for the audience with subtitles.

