Automatons
Released Year: 2006
Running time: 83
Director: James Felix McKenney
Cast: Christine Spencer,Brenda Cooney,Angus Scrimm,Don Wood,
Content: Machines fight for control of a world destroyed by man in this ultra-low-budget sci-fi saga from filmmaker James Felix McKenney. A global war has left the surface of the Earth uninhabitable, and the few humans who have lived through the conflict have been driven underground in order to survive. The Girl (Christine Spencer) lives in a subterranean bunker that she shares with several rattletrap robots of her own design. The Girl occupies herself by watching old videotapes of a scientist who was her friend and mentor before the apocalypse, but lately she has other things on her mind. Another survivor (Brenda Cooney) has established a robot army, and is using the machines to lay claim to the remains of the Earth. As the Girl constructs her own mechanical security force, she discovers the Enemy Leader has a dangerous surprise in his arsenal -- the ability to turn the Girl's robot friends against her. The ranting scientist in Automatons is played by Angus Scrimm, best known to horror film buffs as "the Tall Man" from the Phantasm franchise. 
Wiki info: 
Automatons is a 2006 black-and-white horror film about a war against robots. The movie was made under the working title Death to the Automatons. Christine Spencer, Angus Scrimm, and Brenda Cooney star. John Levene, Don Wood and Executive Producer Larry Fessenden have supporting roles. The film was directed by James Felix McKenney.
Somewhere in the distant future, The Girl is alone. She is the last of her people, the others having died in a generations-long war that the girl continues to fight with the assistance of a group of antiquated robot helpers and soldiers.
Her only connection to her long-dead people is a collection of recorded journal entries made by the scientist who cared for her as a baby. His is the only friendly human face she’s ever seen. The regular transmissions from her enemy's leader are always filled with threats and taunts. The girl responds with an attack of her own, carried out by her mechanical soldiers on the contaminated surface where no human can survive.
Men started this war. The machines will finish it.

