Beyond_the_Black_Rainbow
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 110
Director: Panos Cosmatos
Cast: 
Content: Filmmaker Panos Cosmatos offers an idiosyncratic sci-fi vision in this futuristic fantasy. In the year 1983, Dr. Mercurio Arboria (Scott Hylands) is a physician who, working with the government, has created a new program of physical therapy and medicine which is intended to bring people greater happiness and freedom than they've ever enjoyed before. However, one of the test subjects in Arboria's new scheme, Elena (Eva Allan), isn't so impressed -- she spends her days in a drug-addled haze while kept in a massive hospital complex against her will. Dr. Barry Nyle (Michael Rogers) is looking after Elena's day-to-day progress with the help of his nurse Margo (Rondel Reynoldson), but his efforts to reshape her mind are only so successful, and in time Elena becomes just conscious enough of her circumstances to plan an escape. Beyond the Black Rainbow received its North American premiere at the 2011 Tribeca Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
Beyond the Black Rainbow is a 2010 Canadian science fiction film written and directed by Panos Cosmatos, his feature film debut. The film stars Michael Rogers as "Dr. Barry Nyle". It was produced and filmed in Vancouver, and premiered at the 2010 Whistler Film Festival. It also showed at several film festivals throughout 2011, including Tribeca in New York City and Fantasia in Montreal. Magnet Releasing, the genre division of Magnolia Pictures, has picked up the film for US theatrical release.
In 1983, deep within the mysterious Arboria Institute, a beautiful girl (Eva Allan) is held captive by a scientist, Dr. Barry Nyle (Michael Rogers). When she escapes the facility where she's been imprisoned in her entire life, her therapist pursues her.
As a kid Cosmatos used to frequent a video store entitled Video Addict. During these trips he would frequently browse the horror movie section looking at the boxes although he was not allowed to watch such movies. During such times he would instead imagine what the movie was. He would later reflect upon this experience when making Black Rainbow where one of his goals was "to create a film that is a sort of imagining of an old film that doesn’t exist." The year 1983 was chosen for the storyline as it's the first year he went to Video Addict. Additionally he thought the idea of setting such a film one year before 1984 was funny.
The movie's genesis was an overlap between two projects Cosmatos wanted to do. One of these was a movie about a girl trapped in an asylum while the other was an installation promoting a research facility that didn't exist. Eventually Cosmatos realized that he could use both ideas in the same project.
Beyond the Black Rainbow has been praised for its visual style. Cosmatos declared that his "modernist" use of color was influenced by Michael Mann's Manhunter (1986) and The Keep (1983). The blue hue cinematography - the "night mode" as Cosmatos dubbed it - was inspired by the freezer room scene in John Carpenter's Dark Star (1974). A number of reviewers noted similarities between Beyond the Black Rainbow and Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) and A Clockwork Orange (1971). "I love Stanley Kubrick, and have seen, and probably internalized, all of his work, but any similarity was not my intent", explained Cosmatos. Critics have also compared Beyond the Black Rainbow to Ken Russell's Altered States (1980), and Gaspar Noe's Enter the Void (2010). Of the latter, he deemed it "a very interesting, very beautiful film."
According to Cosmatos, the "rigid geometric world" of the Arboria Institute visually fits on the main themes of the movie: control. This is especially true for the Dr. Nyles character, someone "very knowledged, trying to create a very controlled environment to give himself a feeling of power." The visual reference for Arboria Institute's indoor design was George Lucas' THX 1138 (1971).
One of Beyond the Black Rainbow notable characteristics is its deliberatly slow, hypnotic pace. According to Cosmatos, Beyond the Black Rainbow belongs to what he dubbed the "trance film" subgenre. Cosmatos mentioned Francis Ford Coppola's Apocalypse Now (1979), Alain Resnais' Last Year at Marienbad (1961) and Saul Bass's Phase IV (1974) as cinematographic blueprints for his debut film. Cosmatos explained the rationale behind his screenwriting, which downplays the "very concrete story at the heart of it" in favor of an "atmospheric" approach:
Jeremy Schmidt, keyboard player for Vancouver-based rockers Black Mountain, was invited by Cosmatos to compose the movie's soundtrack. "Evil Ball", a track from Schmidt's solo project, Sinoia Caves, was used by the movie's director on a private screening held for Schmidt. A mutual appreciation for Tangerine Dream, John Carpenter soundtracks and Giorgio Moroder's music for American Gigolo (1980) cemented their bond. Schmidt also pointed out the background music from The Shining (1980) and Risky Business (1983) as musical blueprints for the Beyond the Black Rainbow score.
Regarding the impact of The Shining's soundtrack on his score, Schmidt singled out the compositions by Gyorgy Ligeti and Krzysztof Penderecki as sonic touchstones. Their music had already been featured the sci-fi and horror genres, two of Cosmatos main cinematic obsessions when young. Ligeti pieces "Lux Aeterna" and "Atmosphères" had been featured in 2001: A Space Odyssey, and Penderecki's "Polymorphia" and a portion of "The Devils of Loudun" was used in The Exorcist (1973).
For his analog synth score, Schmidt used the following equipment: a Prophet 5, two Oberheims, Moog Taurus bass pedals, a Korg CX-3 organ and a Mellotron. An extensive use of the Mellotron can be heard on the "flashback" sequence, where Cosmatos had been using Pink Floyd's "Set the Controls for the Heart of the Sun" as a temp track. All in all, "the chosen palette of sounds definitely harkens back to 'The New Age of Enlightenment'", said Schmidt.
Beyond the Black Rainbow has been called a "Reagan-era fever dream". Its paranoid, 1980s Cold War mood contains nods to the late US president - through clips of ominous televised speeches by Ronald Reagan himself - and former Panamenian general and convicted drug lord Manuel Noriega (Dr. Nyles's "Noriega" jacket). The South American dictator had direct involvement in the "Iran-Contra" scandal. Noriega's fight against the Sandinistas, Nicaragua's left-wing guerrillas, was backed up by the CIA and the Pentagon. The CIA funded Noriega's military campaign with profits from the illegal sale of arms to Iran. The CIA also turned a blind eye to Noriega's drug trafficking.
Currently, the film has a rating of 48% on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 23 reviews and an average score of 5.410.

