Allegro
Released Year: 2005
Running time: 92
Director: Christoffer Boe
Cast: Zetterstrøm -- Ulrich Thomsen,Andrea -- Helena Christensen,Tom -- Henning Moritzen,Alex in the Zone -- Nikolaj Lie Kaas,Morten -- Jon Lange,Terence Sander -- Nicolas Bro,
Content: Drawing inspiration from famed Russian filmmaker Andrei Tarkovsky's 1979 sci-fi classic Stalker, directorco-screenwriter Christoffer Boe's heady tale of love and memory follows an acclaimed Danish pianist as he sets out to a mysterious area known only as "The Zone" in hopes of reclaiming his memories and reconnecting with his past. Zetterstrom (Ulrich Thomsen) is a pianist who has sacrificed human emotion in order to achieve perfection. Though many years have passed since Zetterstrom left his native Copenhagen to live in New York, he is now drawn back to his birthplace in order to take part in a gala concert. Upon arriving in Copenhagen, Zetterstrom is contacted by a messenger from an off-limits area of the city known only as "The Zone" and offered an opportunity to remember his long forgotten love for the beautiful Andrea (Helena Christensen). Yet while "The Zone" can indeed resurrect the memories of the past, Zetterstrom will soon discover that there are limits to what one can accomplish by visiting this mysterious and magical landscape. 
Wiki info: 
Allegro is a 2005 Danish film directed by Christoffer Boe, who also wrote the screenplay together with Mikael Wulff. It is Christoffer Boe's second film as a director. It features Ulrich Thomsen and former model Helena Christensen.
Zetterstrøm (Ulrich Thomsen) once had a love affair with a woman (Helena Christensen), then left her and forgot all about his past, in favour of his musical career. While he is away from Copenhagen, a supernatural incident occurs, making the central part of Copenhagen inaccessible, over time it becomes impossible to enter the area due to some invisible shield. When Zetterstrøm returns to Copenhagen, he is oblivious of this incident, and is guided by a mysterious man (Henning Moritzen) into the zone. Inside the zone, Zetterstrøm must re-experience his unresolved and traumatic love affair.

