Last_Night
Released Year: 1998
Running time: 94
Director: Don McKellar
Cast: Don McKellar,Sandra Oh,Callum Keith Rennie,Sarah Polley,David Cronenberg,Geneviève Bujold,Arsinee Khanjian,Jackie Burroughs,Tracy Wright,
Content: Don McKellar wrote and directed this comedy-drama about the last night of the world, part of the 12-film Arte series of movies about the Millennium. Set in Toronto,  Patrick (McKellar) endures a faux Christmas celebration with his family while Sandra (Sandra Oh) tries to get across town to commit suicide with her husband, a gas company employee Duncan (David Cronenberg). Meanwhile, Craig (Callum Keith Rennie) hopes to achieve sexual satisfaction with several women on his list. Still mourning his dead wife, Patrick plans his last moments alone, until he and Sandra crosspaths. Shown in the Directors Fortnight section at the 1998 Cannes Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
Last Night is a 1998 Canadian drama film by Don McKellar. It was filmed in Toronto.
Set in Toronto at an unknown date, Last Night tells the story of how a variety of intersecting characters spend their final evening on Earth. It seems the world is to end at midnight as the result of a calamity that is not explained, but which has been expected for several months. There are several scenes of an ominously glowing sun, which gets progressively larger and brighter even into the night.
Some people in the film choose to spend their last evening alone, others with loved ones, others in prayer, others in public mayhem, and still others at raucous festivities. Duncan (David Cronenberg), the owner of a power company, spends the majority of his final day calling up every single one of his customers to reassure them that their heating gas will be kept on until the very end. Meanwhile, his wife Sandra (Sandra Oh) prepares to fulfill their suicide pact when she becomes stranded with a depressed widower Patrick (Don McKellar) preparing to die while listening to music and drinking wine on his roof, surrounded by mementoes of his recently deceased wife. The widower's best friend Craig (Callum Keith Rennie) participates in a nearly non-stop sex marathon as he attempts to fulfill every fantasy he has ever had, at one point awkwardly asking Patrick to join him. Sarah Polley appears as Patrick's sister Jennifer; their family chooses to have a final meal together although he leaves prematurely to seek his own finale. Jackie Burroughs makes an appearance as an apparently mentally disturbed woman who jogs around announcing how much time is left before the end. Arsinee Khanjian also appears as a mother on an abandoned streetcar who is paralyzed by despair.
In the climax of the film, Patrick and Sandra decide to fulfill the suicide pact that her husband was unable to complete. As midnight approaches, they both sit on the roof facing each other, listening to the song "Guantanamera", each holding a loaded pistol to the other's temple. As the final minutes approach, Sandra implores Patrick to resolutely carry out the pact. But as the final seconds approach, both characters are overcome with emotion and simultaneously let their pistols slip away as they slowly embrace in a kiss and the last moments of all the major characters are seen. It is at this moment that the world, and all its characters, ends.
Among its 12 awards, it won the "Award of the Youth" at the Cannes Film Festival, "Best Canadian First Feature Film" at the Toronto International Film Festival, and three Genie Awards: the Claude Jutra Award for best feature film by a first-time director (Don McKellar), and the Genies for "Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role" (Sandra Oh) and "Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role" (Callum Keith Rennie). In 2002, readers of Playback magazine voted Last Night the ninth greatest Canadian film of all-time.

