20th_Century_Boys
Released Year: 2008
Running time: 142
Director: Yukihiko Tsutsumi
Cast: 
Content: A burned-out rocker discovers his doom-struck adolescent fantasies are coming true in this futuristic thriller from Japan. Ever since his career as a musician crashed and burned, Kenji (Toshiaki Karasawa) has been making a living working at a quick-stop store and living with his family. One day, police officers stop by and ask Kenji about a family of regular customers who've gone missing, though Kenji has hardly noticed their absence. When Kenji visits the home of the missing family, he notices a strange piece of graffiti on the wall, and is startled when he remembers it was the symbol of a club of teenage misfits he belonged to years ago. Kenji and his friends in the club created an amateur comic book that imagined an apocalyptic future in which strange illnesses and bands of armed insurgents threatened to destroy the world. As a wave of unexplained murders sweeps through the city, overseas the events of Kenji's old comic are beginning to come true; a fanatical cult known as Friend found the book and under the leadership of Sadakiyo they've made it their business to turn it into a reality, and now Kenji and his old friends have to infiltrate the cult and stop them before it's too late. 20-seiki shonen (aka 20th Century Boys) was adapted from a best selling manga by Naoki Urasawa and became a major box office hit in Japan. 
Wiki info: 
20th Century Boys (20世紀少年, Nijusseiki Shōnen?) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Naoki Urasawa. It was originally serialized in Big Comic Spirits from 1999 to 2006, with the 249 chapters published into 22 tankōbon volumes by Shogakukan. In January 2007, a "sequel" titled 21st Century Boys (21世紀少年, Nijūisseiki Shōnen?) ran until July for 16 chapters, which were gathered into 2 tankōban. It tells the story of Kenji Endō and his friends, who notice a cult-leader known only as "Friend" is out to destroy the world, and it has something to do with their childhood memories. The series makes many references to classic rock music, its title being taken from T.Rex's song "20th Century Boy", as well as a number of manga and anime from the 1960s-1970s.
A trilogy of live-action film adaptations, directed by Yukihiko Tsutsumi, were released in 2008 and 2009. The manga was licensed for an English-language release by Viz Media in 2005; however, at Urasawa's request, it was rescheduled until after their translation of Monster finished. The films were also licensed by Viz in North America and by 4Digital Media in the United Kingdom.
In 1969, young boys Kenji, Otcho, Yoshitsune and Maruo build, in an empty field, a hideout they call their secret base, in which they and their friends can get together to share manga and stolen pornographic magazines and listen to a radio. To celebrate the event, Otcho draws a symbol for the base that would represent their friendship. After their friends Yukiji and Donkey join the gang, they imagine a future scenario where villains would try to destroy the world, and in which the boys would stand up and fight; this scenario is transcribed and labelled Book of Prophecy (よげんの書, Yogen no sho?).
In the late 1990s, where Kenji is a convenience store owner, finding solace in his childhood adventures as he takes care of his baby niece Kanna and his mother. After Donkey is reported to have committed suicide, Kenji stumbles upon a large cult led by a man known only as "Friend". With current events beginning to resemble actions from the Book of Prophecy, Kenji and his former classmates try to remember who knows about the book. They find more events unfolding such as bombings and virus attacks in San Francisco, London, and a major Japanese airport.
Kenji and his former classmates eventually uncover a plan to destroy the world on New Year's Eve of 2000, referred to in the latter part of the story as the Bloody New Year's Eve, with the use of a "giant robot", which is later revealed to be a giant balloon with robotic appendages, which spreads the virus throughout the city as well as other cities. Kenji manages to get inside the robot to plant a bomb, but is presumed dead when it explodes. From this event, the members of the Friendship Democratic Party (友民党, Yūmintō?) gain widespread political popularity and power by presenting a vaccine that counters the virus, and thus take all the credit for saving the world.
14 years after Bloody New Years Eve, Kanna is a teenage girl who works at a Chinese restaurant. After she tries to diffuse some interaction between various mafia groups, she discovers that a patron's friend had witnessed a Chinese mafia member get killed by a corrupted policeman. The mafia member mentions an assassination attempt on the Pope as he visits Japan. She then finds herself being hunted by members of the Friends while trying to unite the mafia groups to her cause. Meanwhile, Otcho manages to escape a maximum security prison.
Kyoko Koizumi, who attends Kanna's school, impulsively takes on a school assignment of covering Bloody New Years Eve, but soon becomes entangled in activities involving both the Friends and the people who oppose them. After surviving a brainwashing program, she joins with Kenji's friend Yoshitsune and his resistance force.
Friend reveals a new plan, a continuation of the Book of Prophecy, in which he plans to kill every human being on Earth except for three million of his followers, but he is then assassinated by his chief scientist Yamane. Following this, Friend's funeral becomes a worldwide spectacle, held in a stadium with the Pope giving the address. Partway through the service, Friend appears to rise from the dead, and is shot in the shoulder by his own assassin. By saving the Pope, Friend is elevated to deity like status. Meanwhile, there is a worldwide viral outbreak that threatens to kill everyone except those who have been vaccinated.
The final portion of the story takes place in a newly remodeled Japan, under the "Era of Friend", who has instituted numerous bizarre changes, including the establishment of an Earth Defense Force, reputedly to protect Earth from an imminent alien invasion, exiling those without vaccinations, and forbidden travel across regions, under penalty of death. During this time frame, Kanna, who is revealed to be Friend's daughter, leads an insurgency against Friend's government, enlisting the aid of numerous groups, including the survivors of rival gangs and mafia organizations. During this, Kenji, apparently also risen from the dead and carrying his trademark guitar, reappears.
The series spans several decades from 1969 to 2017, the last of which in the chronology of the series, becomes 3FE (3rd Year of the Friend Era). The series makes two distinct timeline cuts during the story; one from 2000 to 2014, and one from 2014 to 3FE. Several parts of the series are also told in flashbacks to previous events as the characters attempt to unravel the mystery of who Friend is and how to stop his plans of world destruction; most of the character's childhood backstories through the 1970s and 1980s are told in this fashion.

A businessman who allies with Friend and becomes one of the Friendship Democratic Party leaders. He originally met the boys in 1970-1971 when he was trying to sell knick-knacks such as space food and spoons. Upon discovering that Friend had a spoon bending talent, he attempted to recruit him for a show he was doing.
Written and illustrated by Naoki Urasawa, while also writing Monster, 20th Century Boys was originally serialized in Big Comic Spirits from 1999 to 2006. The 249 individual chapters were published into 22 tankōbon volumes by Shogakukan from January 29, 2000 to November 30, 2006. A sequel, titled 21st Century Boys, started in Big Comic Spirits's January 19, 2007 issue and ran until July. The 16 chapters were released into 2 volumes on May 30, 2007 and September 28, 2007. A one-shot manga titled Aozora Chu-Ihō ("Blue Sky Advisory — Kiss") was published in the February 2009 issue of Big Comic Spirits, it was credited to "Ujiko-Ujio", the pen-name of the fictional manga creator duo Kaneko and Ujiki in 20th Century Boys.
The manga was licensed for an English language release in North America by Viz Media in 2005. Though at the request of Urasawa, who felt there was a change in his art style over time, it was delayed until after their translation of Monster finished. The first volume was released on February 17, 2009, and the last on September 18, 2012.
The trilogy of 20th Century Boys live-action films, directed by Yukihiko Tsutsumi, were first announced in 2006. In February 2008, the main cast was announced, as well as the trilogy's budget of 6 billion yen (approx. $60 million US) and that Urasawa will contribute to the script. Filming of the first two movies was planned from January 3 to the end of June, and of the third from mid-August to the end of October. English rock band T. Rex's "20th Century Boy", the song from which the series gets its name, was used as the theme song to the films.
The first movie's premiere was held in Paris on August 19, 2008 at the Publicis Champs-Elysees cinema with a press conference at the Louvre Museum, which was attended by Toshiaki Karasawa (Kenji) and Takako Tokiwa (Yukiji). The first film was released on August 30, 2008 and debuted at number two at the box office, grossing 625.61 million yen (approx. $5.78 million US), it rose to number one the second week. The second film was released on January 31, 2009 and debuted at number one, grossing approximately $6,955,472 US. The third film was released on August 29, 2009 and debuted at number one, it earned approximately $22,893,123 US by its second week.
The first movie covers volumes 1 to 5 of the manga, and the second covers volumes 6 to 15, but differs from the original manga on some key points. Important characters missing in the first movie were introduced in the second. The final film in the trilogy covers the remainder of the volumes, but with several changes to the main story.
The first film in the trilogy is now available on DVD and Blu-ray in Japan from VAP, and in Hong Kong from Kam & Ronson. Both discs are locked to Region A, while of the two, only the HK release contains English subtitles.
A UK DVD release was announced by label 4Digital Asia, and released on 4 May 2009. On the same day, Part 2 received its UK theatrical premiere at the 8th Sci-Fi-London annual fantastic film festival. Part 3 received its UK theatrical premiere on 7 May 2010 at the Prince Charles Cinema in London as part of the 2nd Terracotta Film Festival. Following this, 4Digital Asia will release a 4-disc boxset containing the complete trilogy on 31 May 2010.
Viz Media has licensed the trilogy for a North American release. The first film had its US theatrical premiere at the New People opening in San Francisco on 15 August 2009. The second film premiere followed at the same cinema on 21 August 2009, and the third film premiere followed on the same day as the Japanese premiere on 28 August 2009.
Part 1 received its US DVD release on 11 December 2009. A launch event was held at the New People cinema in San Francisco with a theatrical screening. Part 2's DVD release had a similar launch event on 9 February 2010 with a one-night-only theatrical screening. Part 3 has a launch event & theatrical screening scheduled at New People on 20 May 2010. Entire series broadcast by NHK on its TV Japan channel airing on consecutive Saturdays beginning November 13, 2010.
The 20th Century Boys manga has won numerous awards, including the 2001 Kodansha Manga Award in the General category, an Excellence Prize at the 2002 Japan Media Arts Festival, the 2003 Shogakukan Manga Award in the General category, and the first ever Angoulême International Comics Festival Prize for a Series in 2004. It also won the Grand Prize at the 37th Japan Cartoonists Association Awards, and the Seiun Award in the Comic category at the 46th Japan Science Fiction Convention, both in 2008. In 2011, the series won the 2010 Eisner Award for Best U.S. Edition of International Material, for Viz Media's English releases. It was also nominated for the 2010 Harvey Award in the Best American Edition of Foreign Material category.
Carlos Santos of Anime News Network felt the pacing of the series should have been quicker, but praised the intricate and interconnecting plot and its twists, as well as the well-developed characters. He also noted Urasawa's art and dialogue, saying "it takes real skill to build a story as multi-layered as this one and still have it make sense as the characters explain things".

