2012:_Ice_Age
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 90
Director: Travis Fort
Cast: Patrick Labyorteaux,Julie McCullough,Nick Afanasiev,Katie Wilson,Kyle Morris,Gerald Webb,Chacko Vadaketh,Cedric Scott,Ted Monte,Sean Cory,
Content: When a volcanic eruption in Greenland sends a glacier hurtling toward North America, BILL HART (Patrick Labyorteaux), along with his wife TERI (Julie McCullough), and son NELSON (Nick Afanasiev), must make a death-defying escape from their Maine home as the giant iceberg crashes through New England. The Harts must find daughter JULIA (Katie Wilson) in the chaotic streets of New York before the city is wiped out by the onrushing glacier. And as a new Ice Age settles over the eastern sea board, their path is made all the more treacherous by blinding snowstorms and lethal gales of flying ice.See All 2012: Ice Age Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 90&nbsp;mins
Wiki info: 
2012: Ice Age is a 2011 disaster film produced by the independent film group The Asylum. It is the first blockbuster mockbuster taking in elements from The Day After Tomorrow.
Bill Hart drives daughter Julie to the airport as his son Nelson attempts to . Bill is able to contact Dr. Divya who informs Bill the team of scientists has left Iceland. Divya is able to tell Bill an entire range of volcanoes has erupted and a 200-mile long ice shelf is breaking apart before he is killed by the volcanic eruptions. While Bill is distracted, Julie heads into the airport.
At his office, Bill’s is advised to leave Maine and head to the West as soon as he can to avoid the destruction of the glacier. Bill and Nelson head to the Senator’s office and pick up his wife Teri. The glacier travels at high speeds, races towards the East Coast, bringing heavy snow and giant hail. The Air Force attempts to break apart the glacier with aerial attacks, but fails.
In New York, Julie meets up with her boyfriend Logan and goes to her dorm. After learning about the glacier, Julie and Logan leave the dormitories and attempt to travel through subway tunnels. They eventually find a way to Lincoln Tunnel and travel through it to New Jersey. The glacier rushes on and destroys Boston and races towards New York. In Connecticut, Bill meets a California bound Gary, who is stranded with no car. Bill tries to appease Gary with food, but gives up the van when Gary threatens the family. Gary races on, only to crash into a river and sink. On foot, the Harts walk across the frozen river and enter a seemingly empty home. The Harts gather food and coats, when a young boy asks them to help his father. He leads them to the garage where his father is pinned down by a fallen shelf. They free Gerald and are offered a ride to the West. Bill declines stating they must go to New York to find their daughter. Bill and his family take the Gerald’s light aircraft, flying through snow and tornadoes.
While on the plane, the Harts witness a second failed Air Force attempt to break the glacier. When the plane runs out of fuel (from a leak), Bill makes an impromptu landing. Shortly after exiting the plane, it explodes and an air traffic controller leads them to a hangar for safety. The Harts find a car and leave hangar, tracking Julie’s phone to discover that she is only a few miles away. They eventually abandon the car and search on foot. Julie and Logan remain outside in an alley. Julie is reunited with her family. The Harts and Logan head back to the car and drive across the frozen New York Harbor to the Statue of Liberty.
When the glacier approaches, they hide in the Statue of Liberty as the Air Force nukes the glacier final attempt to break the glacier. The glacier breaks apart moments before hitting the Statue of Liberty, covering the area in snow. The Harts are safe and the camera pans out to a half buried Statue of Liberty.

