Supernova
Released Year: 2005
Running time: 172
Director: John Harrison
Cast: Luke Perry,Tia Carrere,Peter Fonda,Lance Henriksen,Clemency Burton-Hill,Emma Samms,Jessica Brooks,Eliza Bennett,Philip Lenkowsky,
Content: In the tradition of The Day After Tomorrow, Deep Impact, and Armageddon, Peter Fonda, Tia Carrere, Luke Perry, and Emma Samms star in Supernova, a three-and-a-half hour miniseries originally created and produced for The Hallmark Channel. In this special effects-laden sci-fi actioner, Fonda plays a Dr. Shepard, a famed astrophysicist who discovers -- all too late -- that the sun's age has been miscalculated, and that it will supernova in a matter of only days -- destroying the Earth and everything else in our solar system. As Dr. Shepard flees to Africa, his prophecy materializes: enormous solar particles careen toward the Earth, destroying its international landmarks. Meanwhile, a group of scientists begin to search for the missing Shepard and a paranoid government agent (played by Lance Henriksen) schemes to help a small group of civilians escape the coming disaster by furnishing underground bunkers to shield and protect them. 
Wiki info: 
Supernova is a 2005 made for television movie originally aired on Hallmark Channel. The film is a typical disaster movie and as such it had a large number of special effects. It was filmed on location in Cape Town, South Africa and Sydney, Australia. The ensemble cast is led by Luke Perry and Peter Fonda.
A worldwide scientific conference is taking place in Australia when Dr. Austin Shepard (Peter Fonda) suddenly disappears. Dr. Shepard's colleague, Christopher Richardson (Luke Perry) and other individuals are soon faced with the reality of an impending crisis and an attempt to keep the information from the public. While a full-blown supernova does not occur, explosions on the sun cause massive damage in Australia and in various other parts of the world. During the impending chaos an old enemy of Richardson's wife escapes from prison, and immediately sets out to kill her and her daughter.

