The_Devil's_Sword
Released Year: 1984
Running time: 101
Director: Ratno Timoer
Cast: 
Content: A powerful queen with an army of mutant zombies seeks to acquire a magical sword forged from the otherworldy metal of a fallen meteorite in this hallucinogenic Indonesian fantasy featuring legendary Asian film star Barry Prima. Forged by an ancient wizard centuries ago in a land long forgotten, the strange and powerful Devil's Sword possesses a magical power that will grant whoever wields it unlimited power over all of mankind. From her palace of crystal deep beneath the surface of the ocean, the sexually insatiable Crocodile Queen seduces men into joining her powerful army of undead soldiers with the ultimate goal of one day possessing the power of the Devil's Sword. Now that the Crocodile Queen has found the one man capable of leading her to the mythical blade, the fate of humanity hangs in the ability of one man to resist evil and prevent the sacred sword from falling into the hands of the wicked queen. 
Wiki info: 
The Devil's Sword (Indonesian: Golok Setan) is a 1984 Indonesian sword and sorcery film directed by Ratno Timoer. The film stars Indonesian action star Barry Prima who appears in such films as Ferocious Female Freedom Fighters and The Warrior. The Devil's Sword crosses over into many different genres of film. The film features martial arts, and also elements of fantasy, horror, sci-fi, and also some mild sexual content due to the portrayal of the Alligator Queen.
Just like the better known character Jaka Sembung, protagonist of the film is taken from a comic book. 1987 film Mandala Dari Sungai Ular (Mandala from the Snake River), a sequel to The Devil's Sword, is an eponymous adaptation of the cartoon. The main difference between two characters is that Mandala is a warrior from mythical pre-Islamic times of the Archipelago while Jaka Sembung is a Muslim and West Javanese freedom fighter against Dutch colonial rule.
The Devil's Sword follows a quest to find an ancient sword that was forged from a mysterious metallic substance that fell to earth in the form of a meteorite. An old man who finds the meteorite creates the Devil's Sword, and he hides it after it burns down his hut. Whoever wields the sword holds the greatest power imaginable in his hands. Banyujaga (Advent Bangun) is sent by the Alligator Queen (Enny Christina) to steal the fiance of a local village's princess (Rita Zahara) to keep as her own subject. During the raid on the village, Mandala (Barry Prima), a one time colleague of Banyujaga, sees the scuffle and helps defend the village, and ends up helping the princess recover her husband to be. Mandala recovers the Devil's Sword, but will it ultimately be enough to defeat the Alligator Queen and Banyujaga?

