Steel_Dawn
Released Year: 1987
Running time: 102
Director: Lance Hool
Cast: Patrick Swayze,Lisa Niemi,Anthony Zerbe,Brion James,Christopher Neame,John Fujioka,Brett Hool,Marcel Van Heerden,Arnold Vosloo,
Content: This futuristic drama offers the classic story of Shane seved up with a few Mad Max moments and some interesting twists. The tale is set in the smouldering, decimated post-World War III town of Meridian, where locals scrabble to keep their meager farms watered in the midst of a desert wasteland. Bad-guys - a powerful landowner and his cronies - try to monopolize the precious local water supplies by bullying, kidnapping and even murdering citizens. To this beleaguered place comes the enigmatic swordsman warrior Nomad who has come in search of his mentor's killer. The town takes him on as their "Peacemaker" and he is able to end their problems and get his revenge to boot. The story was filmed on location in the deserts of South Africa. 
Wiki info: 
Steel Dawn is a 1987 American post-apocalyptic feature film, with elements of western science fiction.
An enigmatic swordsman named Nomad (Patrick Swayze), wanders through the remains of a post-World War III world. He travels the desert, in search of his mentor's killer, the assassin Sho (Christopher Neame).
The war itself is never described, but there are hints that a new government rose soon afterwards. Nomad had a position of privilege as a soldier and as part of the elite guard assigned with protecting the upper heads of the new government. Since firearms are no longer available, edged weapons have been revived as the standard fighting tools. The elite guard mastered the use of swords and carried them in an unusual, upright fashion. Eventually, the post-war government collapsed as well and Nomad retired to run a farm with his family.
Nomad runs into a group of settlers in the town of Meridian. Damnil (Anthony Zerbe), a local landowner, and his gang are attacking the town to gain a monopoly on the local water supply. Nomad stays at a local farm owned by Kasha (Lisa Niemi) who is Nomad's love interest (and Swayze's real life wife). Nomad teams up with Kasha's foreman Tark to become Meridian's "peacekeepers" to defend the town against Damnil and his forces, as well as giving him the opportunity to revenge his mentor's death at the hands of Sho.

