12:01
Released Year: 1993
Running time: 94
Director: Jack Sholder
Cast: 
Content: Based on a story by Richard Lupoff (a short filmization of the same story earned an Oscar nomination for 1990), 12:01 centers on a member of the personnel department in a science lab, who discovers that the world has become somehow trapped in a strange time warp that causes the same 24-hour period to repeat itself. During the course of that endlessly repeated day, Barry Thomas, the only one who seems to be aware of what's happening, must somehow figure out how to put time back on its normal course and solve the murder of a physicist, Lisa Fredricks (Helen Slater) with whom he is infatuated. 
Wiki info: 
12:01 is a 1993 television film directed by Jack Sholder, and starring Helen Slater, Jonathan Silverman, Jeremy Piven, and Martin Landau. It originally aired on the Fox Network in the United States.
It is an adaptation of Richard Lupoff's short story "12:01 PM," published in the December 1973, issue of The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction. The story had previously been adapted into an 1990 Academy Award nominated short film starring Kurtwood Smith.
Expanding on the original's premise of a one hour time loop, this version saw the main character reliving the same 24-hour period, which would restart at one minute past midnight (rather than midday as in the other versions).

Investigation of potential copyright issue
The previous content of this page has been identified as posing a potential copyright issue, as a copy or modification of the text from the source(s) below, and is now listed on Wikipedia:Copyright problems (listing):
Unless the copyright status of the text on this page is clarified, it may be deleted one week after the time of its listing.
Explain this on this article's discussion page, with reference to evidence. Wikipedia:Public domain and Wikipedia:Compatibly licensed may assist in determining the status.
Your rewrite should be placed on this page, where it will be available for an administrator or clerk to review it at the end of the listing period. Follow this link to create the temporary subpage.
If you have tagged the article for investigation, please complete the following steps:

Lowly clerk Barry Thomas is very interested in his co-worker and scientist Lisa Fredericks who barely notices him. That night Barry witnesses her death in a drive-by shooting as he heads home from work. Much later as he laments her death, he receives an electrical shock at exactly midnight. The next morning he slowly becomes aware that all the events of the previous morning are repeating themselves. The shock has caused him to be aware of the time loop, while everyone else is oblivious to the repetition. Over several loops, Barry learns how to save Lisa while in the process getting fired and arrested for being in the wrong place and for superior knowledge of events, a problem that often occurs in time travel stories. In some loops he gets much closer to Lisa than others, though there is a general theme of progression of the relationship. Barry eventually learns that Lisa’s boss, Dr. Thadius Moxley, illegally and unethically proceeded with a prohibited scientific experiment involving faster-than-light particle acceleration that caused the time loop. Dr. Thadius Moxley’s henchmen are also behind Lisa’s murder, as she had uncovered aspects of his illegal activities. With the help of an undercover government agent, Barry and Lisa must stop her boss and prevent him from ever activating the machine again or the world will remain trapped in a time loop forever.

The movie was released on DVD in the United States on November 28, 2006.
The film Groundhog Day, which has a similar time loop premise, was also released in 1993. The writers and producers of 12:01 believed their work was stolen by Groundhog Day.
According to Richard Lupoff:

