FAQ:_Frequently_Asked_Questions
Released Year: 2004
Running time: 82
Director: Carlos Atanes
Cast: Xavier Tort - Nono,Anne-Celine Auche - Angeline,Manuel Solàs - Head Insurgent,Raúl Mena - Apprentice Insurgent,Marta Timón - Metacontrol Inspector,Antonio Vladimir - Method actor,Neus Bernaus - Adviser to Number 3,Anna Diogène - Number 3,Neus Suñe - The surgeon,Xavier Tor Sanz - The butler,
Content: Spanish director Carlos Atanes's dystopian sci-fi drama FAQ: Frequently Asked Questions unfolds in a totalitarian Paris of the near future, ruled over by a matriarchal organization called 'The Sisterhood of Metacontrol.' This governing body forbids all physical interaction between genders to prevent contamination. Grossly dissatisfied with these rules and craving erotic contact, two rebels - new societal inductee Angeline W.R.S. (Anne-Celine Auche) and one of the Sisterhood's male servants, Nono (Xavier Tort) discover a sexual attraction to one another and slip off as refugees to one of the planet's remaining "sexual" areas, in the Pyrenees. En route, however, they find it increasingly difficult to evade detection and capture. 
Wiki info: 
FAQ: Frequently Asked Questions is a feature-length dystopia movie, written and directed by Carlos Atanes and released in 2004.
France, sometime in the near future. The Sisterhood of Metacontrol governs Europe. Angeline, an exemplary and irreproachable citizen has just joined the Order but her relationship with a special man, Nono, will make her question profoundly the principles of the Doctrine.
FAQ is a rarity in Spanish cinematography, as it is an independent film made in a country that produces almost no science-fiction. FAQ portrays a future world ruled by a totalitarian government, following in the footsteps of other famous dystopias such as Nineteen Eighty-Four and THX 1138. In FAQ, the totalitarian government is a matriarchy, which is the expansion of the current "politically correct" discourse to its paroxysm.
After several short films (the most outrageous are collected into the Anthology CODEX ATANICUS) and before PROXIMA Carlos Atanes filmed his first feature-film FAQ: Frequently Asked Questions in one year, plus three year of post-production. It was released in 2004 at the Girona International Film Festival, the Buenos Aires Rojo Sangre Fantasy Film Festival, Tel Aviv ICon festival and the Spanish Science Fiction Convention.
FAQ was produced with no help from distributors or institutions, and took a tortuous voyage through film festivals until it became one of the Spanish feature films most selected by film festivals around the world in 2005. This was not enough to attract the interest from Spanish distributors. After good reviews from fantasy and indie film websites, and acknowledgment from the Athens and Fantasporto film festivals, an enterprise from New York (S.R.S. Cinema, L.L.C.) assumed the film's distribution for five years. Finally FAQ was released on DVD in August 2007 for a worldwide audience. In December 2010, FortKnox Audiovisual releases a Special Collector's Edition DVD, which includes some extras and the short documentary About FAQ.

