Sunshine
Released Year: 2007
Running time: 107
Director: Danny Boyle
Cast: Cillian Murphy,Chris Evans,Rose Byrne,Michelle Yeoh,Cliff Curtis,Troy Garity,Hiroyuki Sanada,Benedict Wong,Chipo Chung,Mark Strong,
Content: As the sun begins to dim along with humankind's hope for the future, it's up to a desperate crew of eight astronauts to reach the dying star and reignite the fire that will bring life back to planet Earth in this tense psychological sci-fi thriller that re-teams 28 Days Later director Danny Boyle with writer Alex Garland and producer Andrew Macdonald. The skies are darkening, and the outlook for planet Earth is grim. Though the encroaching darkness at first seems unstoppable, scientists have concocted one desperate last-ditch plan to buy the human race a temporary reprieve from the grim future that looms just past the horizon. A crew of eight men and women has been given a nuclear device designed to literally reignite the sun and sent hurtling through infinity on the most crucial space mission ever attempted. Suddenly, as the crew loses radio contact with mission control, everything begins to fall apart. Now, in the farthest reaches of the galaxy, the men and women who may hold the key to ultimate survival find themselves not only struggling for their lives, but their sanity as well. Rose Byrne, Chris Evans, Cillian Murphy, and Michelle Yeoh star in a film that asks audiences just what would become of humankind if the sky suddenly went black. 
Wiki info: 
Sunshine is a 2007 British science fiction adventure thriller film directed by Danny Boyle. The film was adapted from a screenplay written by Alex Garland about the crew of a spacecraft on a dangerous mission to the Sun. In 2057, with the Earth in peril from the dying Sun, the crew is sent on a mission to reignite the star with a nuclear bomb with the mass of Manhattan. The script was based on a scientific back-story that took the characters on a psychological journey. The director cast a group of international actors for the film, and had the actors live together and learn about topics related to their roles, as a form of method acting. To have the actors realistically react to visual effects that would be implemented in post-production, the filmmakers constructed live sets to serve as cues. The ensemble cast features Cillian Murphy, Chris Evans, Rose Byrne, Michelle Yeoh, Cliff Curtis, Troy Garity, Hiroyuki Sanada, Benedict Wong, Chipo Chung, and Mark Strong.
The film was a co-production between the motion picture studios of Moving Picture Company, DNA Films, UK Film Council, and Ingenious Film Partners. Theatrically, it was commercially distributed by Fox Searchlight Pictures, while the 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment division released the film in the video rental market. Sunshine explores physics, science and religion. Following its wide release in theatres, the film garnered several award nominations for its acting, directing, and production merits. It also won an award for Best Technical Achievement for production designer Mark Tildesley from the British Independent Film Awards. The film score was orchestrated by musician John Murphy. The soundtrack was released by the Fox Music Group label on November 25, 2008.
Previous science fiction films that Boyle cited as influences included Kubrick's 1968 film 2001: A Space Odyssey, the 1972 Tarkovsky's Solaris, and the 1979 science-fiction horror film Alien. Sunshine was released in the United Kingdom on 6 April 2007 and in the United States on 20 July 2007. The film took £3.2 million in the UK over twelve weeks, and in the USA it was placed no. 13 in the box office on the first weekend of its wide release. With a budget of US$40 million, it ultimately grossed almost US$32 million worldwide. Although the film was not considered a major box office success, preceding its initial screening to the public, the film was generally met with positive critical reviews. With its initial foray into the home media marketplace; the widescreen DVD and Blu-ray editions of the film featuring the hi-definition theatrical trailer, scene selections, and director's commentary among other highlights was released in the United States on 8 January 2008.
In 2057, the failure of the Earth's Sun threatens life on the planet, placing it in a solar winter and compelling humanity to reignite it with a massive stellar bomb attached to a spaceship named Icarus I. The ship is lost for reasons unknown and, seven years later, a backup spacecraft with a new payload named the Icarus II is sent in a second and final attempt to complete the mission.
After leaving the range of Earth communications, Icarus II Communications Officer Harvey discovers the distress beacon of Icarus I while passing Mercury. Crew physicist Capa is asked by Captain Kaneda to calculate whether it's feasible to change course and approach Icarus I to attempt to salvage it. The stellar bomb's operation is purely theoretical and there are many things that could go wrong, so Capa recommends changing course to rendezvous with Icarus I in the hope that a second ship and payload will double the chances of success. This decision is vehemently opposed by engineer Mace.
In planning the new course, navigator Trey forgets to realign the shields that protect the ship from the radiation and heat of the solar wind, causing damage to the spacecraft. Kaneda and Capa embark on a spacewalk to make shield repairs while the ship is angled away from the sun to shelter them. Due to another miscalculation, however, a fire is caused in the ship's oxygen garden by reflected sunlight. To control the fire the ship must be re-aligned to face the Sun as soon as possible, and Kaneda sacrifices himself repairing the panels to allow this. Trey blames himself for the loss of Kaneda and the oxygen garden, and psychiatrist Searle assesses him as a suicide risk and sedates him.
Icarus II reaches Icarus I, and the lost spacecraft is explored by Capa, Searle, Harvey, and Mace. While Icarus I has a functional oxygen garden and payload bomb, the ship's computer is found to be sabotaged, rendering delivery of the second payload impossible. Mace finds a video left by Captain Pinbacker, a radically religious man who states the mission was purposely abandoned, thinking it was the "will of God" that humanity should die. The crew of Icarus I is found dead in the solar observation room, having been exposed to un-shielded rays of sunlight. The Icarus I and II airlocks then inexplicably decouple, damaging the Icarus I airlock and stranding the four crew members on the derelict spacecraft. Staying behind, Searle jettisons the other three using the vacuuming of the airlock to propel them into the Icarus II airlock. Harvey is knocked into space during the jump and freezes to death. Searle then enters the Icarus I observation room to die by sunlight exposure.
Five remain on the Icarus II: Capa, Mace, Trey, co-pilot Cassie, and botanist Corazon. Corazon calculates that the Icarus II only has enough air for four to reach the drop-off point. Since someone must have manually decoupled the airlock as there was no hardware failure, and Trey is the only person without an alibi, everyone except Cassie decides Trey must be killed, only for the crew to find Trey has committed suicide. During a final inspection, Capa then discovers from the Icarus II computer that, even without Trey, the oxygen reserves will not last long enough due to a fifth person detected on the spacecraft. Capa ascertains that Pinbacker, now heavily burned from sun exposure, is still alive and in the observation room. Capa surmises that Pinbacker sneaked aboard, and decoupled the airlocks.
Still believing humanity needs to die out, Pinbacker sabotages the spacecraft by removing the Icarus II’s mainframe computer from its coolant bath, shutting down the mainframe and power systems. Pinbacker, after maiming Capa and trapping him in the airlock, kills Corazon with a scalpel and chases Cassie into the payload ship, while Mace attempts to undo Pinbacker's sabotage to the mainframe. He is almost successful, managing to restore most systems before being trapped in a coolant reservoir and freezing to death. Capa, still trapped in the airlock, uses a spacesuit's welding equipment to breach the inner door, allowing him to remove the inner door by decompressing the ship. Manually decoupling the payload from the ship, Capa jumps onto the payload as its boosters fire. No longer protected by the heat shields and the payload, the Icarus II burns up in the solar wind. After Capa enters the payload, Pinbacker attacks and holds Capa off a precipice within the bomb, only for Cassie to grab Capa and tear the skin from Pinbacker's arm with her weight. The gravity well arresting their fall, Capa then leaves the wounded Cassie and triggers the bomb; Capa then watches as space and time distorts, allowing him to see the inner surface of the Sun break into the room as the bomb detonates.
On Earth, Capa's sister reviews her brother's last message on the frozen Sydney Harbour and watches the Sun noticeably brighten, implying the mission's success.

