Rock_&_Rule
Released Year: 1983
Running time: 77
Director: Clive A. Smith
Cast: Don Francks,Lou Reed and Iggy Pop,Greg Salata,Paul Le Mat (American release),Robin Zander,Susan Roman,Deborah Harry,Catherine O'Hara,Chris Wiggins,Maurice LaMarche,Samantha Langevin,Dan Hennessey,Greg Duffel,Brent Titcomb,Donny Burns,Martin Lavut,Catherine Gallant,Keith Hampshire,Melleny Brown,Anna Bouroque,Nick Nichols,John Halfpenny,
Content: A rock & roll singer searches for eternal life in this animated musical fantasy set in a post-nuclear dystopia. Similar to the earlier Heavy Metal (1981) in tone, this film attempts to incorporate mythical themes and mutant beings with music by Cheap Trick, Deborah Harry, Iggy Pop, and other popular acts of the time, with mixed success. Clive Smith's film was a disappointment at the box-office, but has since attracted a minor cult following. 
Wiki info: 
Rock & Rule is a 1983 animated film from the animation studio Nelvana. It was produced and directed by the company's founders, Michael Hirsh, Patrick Loubert, and Clive A. Smith. The film features the voices of Don Francks, Greg Salata, and Susan Roman. It was the studio's first feature film and the first one produced entirely within Canada.
Centering on rock and roll music, the film includes songs by Cheap Trick, Chris Stein and Debbie Harry of the pop group Blondie, Lou Reed, Iggy Pop, and Earth, Wind & Fire. The story takes place in a post-apocalyptic United States populated by mutant humanoids. With John Halfpenny, Patrick Loubert, and Peter Sauder at the helm of its screenplay, Rock & Rule was a heavily derived spinoff of Nelvana's earlier TV special from 1978, The Devil and Daniel Mouse. Its distributor, MGM, acquired United Artists at the time and the new management team had no interest in it so, except for a limited release in Boston, MA., it was never released in North America. It received a screening at a film festival in Germany and because it was funded in part by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, which had obtained the Canadian TV rights, it did get some minor exposure in that country. A hard-to-find VHS was released at that time, followed by a laser disc. The film developed a cult following from repeated airings on HBO and Showtime and the circulation of bootleg VHS copies at comic book conventions booths (with Ralph Bakshi named as director). In 2005, Unearthed Films released a special two-disc edition DVD of the film.
Mok, an aging yet legendary rock musician is on the search for a very special voice that can unleash a powerful demon from another dimension. After traveling around the world looking for the right voice, he returns to Ohmtown, his hometown.
Meanwhile, at a nightclub, Omar, Angel, Dizzy and Stretch perform in a small rock band. As Angel performs a gentle love ballad to a mostly empty audience, Mok hears her sing and the special ring that Mok wears goes off, and he realizes that Angel is the one he needs. He invites Angel and the band to his mansion outside of town. While Omar and Stretch are hypnotized by "Edison Balls", an modern drug. Mok takes Angel on a stroll through his garden and tries to convince her to join him. Initially unaware of Mok's true intentions, she refuses to abandon her band. Unwilling to admit defeat, Mok kidnaps her and takes his blimp to Nuke York, where his summoning, disguised as a concert, will be performed.
After Dizzy snaps his band-mates out of their stupor, the trio find out what happened to Angel and they follow the blimp in a stolen police car. Before they reach Nuke York, they're caught by a border guard and are placed under arrest. Meanwhile, Angel attempts to escape with the unknowing help of Cinderella, a sister of Mok's goons. While sneaking through the ventilation system, Angel overhears Mok confirming his plans with his computer. At this time the computer informs Mok that the only way to stop the demon is with "One voice, One heart, One song", but when Mok asks who can do this, the computer replies "no one voice". Angel and Cindy escape the building and head to the dance club "Club 666", unknowingly being followed by Mok's henchmen.
Omar and his friends are soon bailed out by Dizzy's aunt, who tells them the whereabouts of Angel and Cindy. They follow, but Omar eventually bumps into Mok, who has already recaptured Angel and uses an impersonator to fool Omar into thinking that she is into Mok. To manipulate Angel, Mok then captures the band and tortures them with a giant "Edison Ball" to force her to agree with his demands. He also brainwashes them to ensure that they stay out of the way. The Nuke York concert turns out to be a disaster, because of an electrical failure. Mok relocates the summoning to Ohmtown, where the power plant has unlimited energy. During the second concert, a power surge causes overloads all over the city. The shock also brings Omar and his friends out of their stupor.
Omar, still believing Mok's earlier deception, refuses to help Dizzy and Stretch stop the concert, so they alone went on another stolen police car to the concert. However, they are unable to prevent the demonic summoning,Omar suddenly appears, freeing Angel after it is too late. When the invoked demon tries to attack Omar, one of Mok's simple-minded minions, Zip, sacrifices himself to save Omar. Angel tries singing to force the demon back, but her sole voice has no effect. Omar joins in harmony with Angel, driving the demon back through the portal. Mok realizes that "no one voice" did not mean that a person who could stop him did not exist, but that more than one person was needed for the counterspell. As Mok scrambles to stop the duo's interference, Zip's brother Toad throws him down the portal.
The film ends with a cheering crowd as the band is introduced as the newest superstar talent, fronted by a vocalist duo. It is also revealed that Zip is not really dead, and the film ends with a sunny Ohmtown.

