The_Bride_with_White_Hair
Released Year: 1993
Running time: 92
Director: Ronny Yu
Cast: Brigitte Lin,Leslie Cheung,Leila Tong,Francis Ng,Elaine Lui,Yammie Lam,Joseph Cheng,Eddy Ko,Law Lok-lam,Pau Fung,Jeffrey Lau,Wong Gwan-hong,Sam Hoh,Chang Kin-ming,
Content: Following on the success of 1987's Chinese Ghost Story, Hong Kong was inundated with romantically themed tales of the supernatural. Most were awful, but Ronny Yu's The Bride With White Hair has become a classic of the genre. Based on a two-volumed 1954 novel written by Leung Yu-Sang, the film tells the story of star-crossed lovers and bloody conflict. The two meet when Lian (Brigitte Lin Ching-Hsia), a beautiful sorceress who was raised by wolves, saves young warrior Zhuo Yi-Hang (Leslie Cheung) from a pack of hungry animals. Though she disappears before he can thank her, Zhuo is entranced. Later Zhuo becomes a master swordsman with the Wu Tang Clan, a tight-knit martial arts society dedicated to the villainous Ji Wu-Shuang (played by both Francis Ng and Elaine Lui), a mutant half-man, half-woman creature who rules the land with an iron fist. Though Zhuo is more interested in quiet life of contemplation, the clan elders see Zhou as their best weapon against their evil KingQueen. Meanwhile, Lian has grown into a formidable adversary herself -- especially with the use of her trusty whip, which can slice a man in two. She has been recruited by Ji to thwart the rebels. In the midst of battle, Zhou and Lian meet. Ji -- who secretly lusts for Lian -- orders her to kill Zhuo. She refuses, much to his displeasure, and orders her tortured to within an inch of her life. Zhuo discovers Lian's semi-conscious body and nurses her back to health. The two soon fall passionately in love and vow to always trust one another. Unfortunately, Ji's black magic revenge spoils the lovers' new-found bliss. 
Wiki info: 
The Bride with White Hair is a 1993 Hong Kong film directed by Ronny Yu, starring Brigitte Lin and Leslie Cheung.
The film's main character, Lian Nishang, is loosely based on the protagonist of Liang Yusheng's novel Baifa Monü Zhuan, which had earlier served as source material for the 1982 film Wolf Devil Woman. However, Yu saw the film as a Romeo and Juliet story and said that the lovers' struggle against fate and their heroic duty inspired him more than the familiar trappings of most martial arts adventure films. As such, the film departs significantly from the original source.
A sequel, The Bride with White Hair 2, directed by David Wu, was released later in the same year.
Zhuo Yihang was raised by Taoist Ziyang of the Wudang Sect and groomed to become a young chivalrous swordsman. He is placed in command of a coalition army formed by the eight major orthodox martial arts sects, which aims to prevent an evil cult from infiltrating China. During a battle against the cult, Zhuo Yihang meets a young woman called Lian Nishang and falls in love with her. She was an orphan, and was raised by wolves as an infant before being adopted by Ji Wushuang, the Siamese twins who lead the cult. After consummating their romance, Lian Nishang decides to leave the cult and follow Zhuo Yihang in pursuit of an ordinary life away from the jianghu (martial artists' community).
Lian Nishang succeeds in leaving the cult after suffering great pains. Meanwhile, Zhuo Yihang returns to Wudang and is horrified to see that his fellows have been murdered. The coalition believes that Lian Nishang is responsible and attack her when she arrives to meet Zhuo Yihang. Zhuo Yihang is forced to turn against Lian Nishang, and she morphs into a vicious white-haired killer after feeling that Zhuo had betrayed her love. In anger, Lian Nishang kills all the coalition members present. Suddenly, Ji Wushuang appears and reveals that heshe is actually the one who killed the Wudang members. Zhuo Yihang and Lian Nishang combine efforts to defeat and kill Ji Wushuang. However, even after the victory, Lian Nishang vows never to forgive Zhuo Yihang for betraying her and walks away while Zhuo looks on helplessly.

