Time_Changer
Released Year: 2002
Running time: 88
Director: Rich Christiano
Cast: D. David Morin,Gavin MacLeod,Hal Linden,Jennifer O'Neill,Paul Rodriguez,Richard Riehle,John Valdetero,Dan Campbell,Evan Ellingson,Crystal Robbins,Patty MacLeod,Paul Napier,Charles Hutchins,Callan White,Ross McKerras,Ruben Madera,Mike Wilson,Arthur Roberts,Rod Britt,Ron Sey,Emily Trapp,Brad Heller,Alexander Polk,Teresa Vidak,Paige Peterson,Alana Curry,Nan McNamara,Cassandra Byram,Alfred Jackson,Michael Gier,Chipper Lowell,Linda Kerns,William Bowerman,Michelle Dunker,Kevin Downes,Michael Dotson,
Content: A man is sent into the future to see the possible results of his actions in this mixture of sci-fi adventure and Christian drama. In 1890, Russell Carlisle (D. David Morin) is a philosopher and college professor who has completed a manuscript he calls "The Changing Times." The university where Carlisle teaches is considering publishing his latest work, but a committee of ranking professors under the leadership of the school's Dean (Hal Linden) must first vote unanimously to approve the material. One of Carlisle's colleagues, Norris Anderson (Gavin MacLeod), strongly objects to the paper on the grounds that Carlisle contends morality can be taught apart from Christianity -- a view that Anderson, a devout Christian, cannot abide. Carlisle becomes increasingly frustrated with Anderson's objections, but after the meeting, Anderson shows Carlisle something remarkable -- a working time machine he has built in his home. Using this innovation, Anderson sends Carlisle to a typical American city in the year 2001, in order to show the impact his ideas could have as he witnesses a society in which morality and Christianity are considered separate entities. As he tries to make his way through modern-day America, Carlisle becomes friendly with Eddie (Paul Rodriguez), a well-meaning regular guy, and Michelle (Jennifer O'Neill), a beautiful woman with a mind of her own. Time Changer is the first feature film from writer and director Rich Christiano, who has been making short films for the Christian marketplace since 1991. 
Wiki info: 
Time Changer is an independent seriocomic science fiction Christian film directed by Rich Christiano, released by Five & Two Pictures in 2002. In the movie, Dr. Norris Anderson (Gavin MacLeod) uses his late father's time machine to send his colleague, Bible professor Russell Carlisle (D. David Morin), from 1890 into the early 21st century. The film had a limited nationwide release, and was made available on VHS, DVD and video-on-demand.
Bible professor Russell Carlisle (D. David Morin) confronts and lectures a boy who has stolen marbles from his neighbors, calling his action unjust. The year is 1890 and Carlisle has written a new manuscript entitled The Changing Times, which promotes good morals without discussing Christ. The book is on track to receive a unanimous endorsement from the board of the Grace Bible Seminary. That is, until colleague Dr. Norris Anderson (Gavin MacLeod) objects. Without unanimous endorsement, his book might not do so well. Carlisle and another professor seek a unanimity rule change, but the dean insists that Carlisle discuss the disagreement with Anderson privately.
Dr. Anderson fears that Carlisle's book could harm coming generations, arguing that teaching good moral values without mentioning Christ is wrong. Using a secret time machine, Anderson sends Carlisle over 100 years into the future, offering him a glimpse of where his beliefs will lead.
Arriving in the early 21st century, Carlisle is shocked to find that half of all marriages end in divorce (instead of 5% in 1890), teenagers talk openly about deceiving their parents, movies contain blasphemous language and people who go to church are so bored by the sermons that they need extra activities. He tries to convince a laundromat worker, Eddie Martinez (Paul Rodriguez), to go to church and read the Bible. Two churchgoing men grow suspicious of Carlisle, who acts as if he's seeing everything for the first time. They confront him as he is about to be transported back to the past. As the sky grows thunderous, Carlisle seems delirious as he talks about how the second coming of Christ is drawing near. Carlisle vanishes. The men look at where he vanished and one of the men says with dread, "I think we just missed the Rapture."
Carlisle rematerializes in 1890 and excitedly tells Anderson he will revise his book. He gives the thieving boy his own set of marbles and explains that it is Jesus Christ who demands honesty. Anderson tries to learn when the world will come to an end, by trying to sending a Bible to the future. The machine won't operate with a target date of 2100, so he tries with progressively earlier decades 2090, 2080 and 2070, which fail. As the film ends, he makes at least two more failed attempts, aiming earlier and earlier, suggesting that either humanity cannot know when the End comes, or that the End will come before the mid-21st century.

