Daybreakers
Released Year: 2009
Running time: 98
Director: Peter Spierig
Cast: Ethan Hawke,Willem Dafoe,Sam Neill,Claudia Karvan,Michael Dorman,Isabel Lucas,Vince Colosimo,Robyn Moore,Jay Laga'aia,
Content: Fresh off the success of their inventive take on the zombie genre, Undead masterminds Michael and Peter Spierig direct Ethan Hawke in an ambitious tale of a futuristic Earth populated entirely by vampires, and the efforts made by the creatures to ensure that their food supply doesn't run out as humankind is faced with extinction. The year is 2017, and a vampire plague has turned most of the planet's human population into bloodsucking ghouls. As the population of mortals fast begins to dwindle, a vampiric corporation sets out to capture and farm every remaining human while simultaneously researching a consumable blood substitute, headed by undead hematologist Edward Dalton (Ethan Hawke). His work is interrupted after stumbling onto a pocket of human survivors lead by Elvis (Willem Dafoe), a former vampire, whose past reveals a cure that could reverse the tide and save the human race. With time running out, Dalton's only hope lies in outsmarting the security forces of his boss (Sam Neill), whose goal isn't just to find a substitute, but to repopulate humanity in order to sell its blood to the highest bidder. 
Wiki info: 
Daybreakers is a 2009 science-fiction horror film written and directed by Australian filmmakers Michael and Peter Spierig. The film takes place in 2019, where a plague has turned most of the planet's human population into vampires. A vampiric corporation sets out to capture and farm the remaining humans while researching a blood substitute. Lead vampire hematologist Edward Dalton's (Ethan Hawke) work is interrupted by human survivors led by former vampire "Elvis" (Willem Dafoe), who has a cure that can save the human species.
Daybreakers premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival and was released in the United Kingdom on 6 January 2010 and in North America on 8 January 2010. The film grossed over $US50&#160;million and received positive critical reception.
In 2009, a plague caused by a vampire bat has transformed most of the world's human population into vampires. This event formed a world completely dominated by vampires. As vampires are incapable of aging or dying, but are unprotected against the sunlight or any ultraviolet light, the entire vampire world is active at night. Human numbers quickly dwindle and the need for blood becomes desperate, while a global war rages between the surviving humans and vampires. When deprived of blood for extended periods, vampires degenerate into "subsiders," psychotic bat-like creatures. Humans are captured and harvested in laboratory farms while scientists research a synthetic blood substitute to satisfy vampires' blood hunger.
In 2019, Edward Dalton (Ethan Hawke) is the head hematologist for the pharmaceutical company Bromley Marks, the largest supplier of human blood in the United States. Along with fellow hematologist Chris Caruso (Vince Colosimo), Dalton is in the process of developing a substitute to bolster dwindling blood supplies. The need is underscored after Dalton's boss, company owner Charles Bromley (Sam Neill), reveals that the estimated human population is down to 5%, and national blood supplies will not last more than a month. Faced with this knowledge, Edward and Chris carry out a hasty clinical trial of the latest revision, which is a spectacularly gruesome failure.
On the drive home, Dalton becomes momentarily distracted and accidentally runs another vehicle off the road. When he checks on the occupants of the other vehicle he is shot in the arm by a crossbow shot, and quickly discovers they are humans. With police approaching, Dalton convinces the humans to hide in his vehicle and then tells police that the occupants of the other vehicle fled. The humans then leave, but not before their leader, Audrey (Claudia Karvan), learns Edward's name and occupation from the ID badge on his jacket.
At home, Edward is surprised by his estranged brother Frankie (Michael Dorman), a soldier in the human-hunting U.S. Army who has returned for Edward's birthday. Frankie's gift of a bottle of pure human blood re-ignites a long-standing argument over Edward's sympathies towards humans, his refusal to drink human blood, and his resentment towards Frankie for turning him into a vampire. The argument is cut short when a subsider invades Edwards house, forcing the brothers to team up and kill it.
The following morning, Audrey arrives at Edward's home, giving him a note with instructions for a meet before departing. After some consideration Dalton goes to the meeting location, and is introduced to Lionel "Elvis" Cornack (Willem Dafoe), another human. Before Elvis can explain himself they are interrupted by Frankie, who followed Edward and intends to capture both Cornack and Audrey. Audrey knocks Frankie unconscious and the three make their escape, fleeing from approaching soldiers in Edward's car. Once they escape, Cornack drives to the edge of a river, where he reveals that he was once a vampire, but was cured when a car crash ejected him from his sun-proof vehicle into the river during daylight hours. He asks Dalton to help find a way to recreate the cure safely; Dalton agrees.
That night, Ed arrives with Elvis and Audrey at an old vineyard, the last human colony in the world. Ed meets with the other human survivors, as well as Senator Turner (Jay Laga'aia), a vampire who secretly helps the colony to find a cure. While a convoy of humans is heading to Audrey's group, they are ambushed by vampire soldiers, and captured. One soldier finds a radio and the soldiers track the position of the vineyard, forcing the humans there to flee. Audrey, Elvis and Ed stay behind so Ed can be turned back. After some experimentation, Edward is able to reverse the vampire effect, curing himself.
One of the captured convoy inhabitants is Alison (Isabel Lucas), who wakes up in Charles' office. She is revealed to be his daughter, who ran away after the outbreak of the plague, not accepting her father as a vampire. Charles, wanting to have his daughter back, has Frankie forcibly turn her. She refuses to drink human blood, feeding on her own instead - and thus begins to turn into a subsider. She is rounded up with a group of the creatures in a chain gang and dragged into sunlight to burn to death. Witnessing Alison's death upsets Frankie and he seeks out his brother. Meanwhile, Bromley Marks has exhausted their reserves of blood, and the army arrives in the cities, destroying subsiders to control the population.
Edward, Elvis, and Audrey break into Chris' home and ask him to help spread the cure. However, Chris has finally discovered a viable blood substitute and does not want there to be a cure. He calls in vampire soldiers, who capture Audrey while Elvis and Edward escape into hiding. They are found by Frankie, who agrees to help but is gradually becoming a subsider. He attacks Elvis and they discover that feeding on a former vampire is another method for vampires to turn back to humans.
Edward, trying to save Audrey, turns himself in and goads Charles into attacking him. Edward uses the now-human Charles to cure a group of soldiers starting to experience subsider aggression. Edward and Audrey, cornered by more soldiers, are rescued when Frankie sacrifices himself. This sparks a feeding frenzy that leaves all of the soldiers dead or cured. They are confronted by Chris, who kills the few remaining cured soldiers to hide the evidence of the cure. Just as Chris points his gun at him, Elvis arrives and shoots him in the chest with a crossbow. Edward looks sadly to his dead brother, and Audrey, Edward and Elvis turn back and watch the sun rise on the city.
The three survivors then drive away into the horizon, with a voice-over by Edward stating that they have a cure and can change others back.

