The_Andromeda_Strain
Released Year: 1971
Running time: 131
Director: Robert Wise
Cast: Arthur Hill,David Wayne,James Olson,Kate Reid,Paula Kelly,George Mitchell,Mark Jenkins,Peter Helm,Joe Di Reda,Ramon Bieri,Carl Reindel,Frances Reid,Peter Hobbs,Kermit Murdock,Richard O'Brien,Eric Christmas,Ken Swofford,John Carter,Richard Bull,James W. Gavin,Garry Walberg,Victoria Paige Meyerink,
Content: The "Andromeda Strain" is a deadly extraterrestrial virus. It is brought to Earth when a research satellite crashes near a tiny Arizona town. Everyone in the community dies within days, except for a baby and an "insulated" drunkard. Recruited from labs all over North America, doctors Charles Dutton (David Wayne), Jeremy Stone (Arthur Hill), Ruth Leavitt (Kate Reid), and Mark Hall (James Olson) don radiation suits and race against time to isolate and destroy the virus. The film is based on a novel by Michael Crichton. 
Wiki info: 
The Andromeda Strain is a 1971 American science-fiction film, based on the novel published in 1969 by Michael Crichton. The film is about a team of scientists who investigate a deadly organism of extraterrestrial origin that causes rapid, fatal blood clotting. Directed by Robert Wise, the film starred Arthur Hill, James Olson, Kate Reid, and David Wayne. The film follows the book closely. The special effects were designed by Douglas Trumbull.
After a US government satellite crashes near the town of Piedmont, New Mexico, all of the town's inhabitants quickly die. There are only two survivors — a sixty-two-year-old man and a six-month-old infant. Suspecting that the satellite brought back an alien germ, the military activates an elite scientific team it had previously assembled for just this type of emergency. The team takes the satellite and the survivors to a secret underground laboratory in the Nevada desert, known as the Wildfire Complex. The new life form is assigned the code name Andromeda. While most of the team studies the organism in an attempt to figure out how it works, the team's doctor tries to find a cure by figuring out why the old man and the baby survived. Just as he comes up with the answer, however, Andromeda mutates into a form that degrades synthetic rubber and plastics and thus escapes containment. This triggers an automatic self-destruct mechanism designed to set off a nuclear explosion beneath the complex, intended to incinerate all germs before they can reach the surface. However, the team members studying Andromeda have learned that the alien microbes, having evolved in the harsh environment of outer space, would thrive on the energy of a nuclear explosion and would consequently be able to mutate into a supercolony of an untold number of forms. Having been entrusted with the only key that can shut down the self-destruct sequence before the five-minute countdown is up, the doctor races against the clock and the lab's automated defenses to reach a substation before it's too late.

