Solar_Crisis
Released Year: 1990
Running time: 111
Director: Richard Sarafian
Cast: 
Content: A group of scientists are sent to the sun in 2050 to stop a giant solar flare from destroying the Earth. As the team nears the sun, some members of the team begin to suspect that someone is trying to sabotage their mission. Solar Crisis has very strong special effects and fine acting, making it an excellent sci-fi thriller. 
Wiki info: 
Solar Crisis is a 1990 science fiction film from Japan America Picture Company. The screenplay was written by Joe Gannon and Tedi Sarafian (credited as Crispan Bolt, Tedi is the director's son), based on the novel Kuraishisu niju-goju nen by Takeshi Kawata, and directed by Richard C. Sarafian credited as Alan Smithee. The cast featured Tim Matheson as Steve Kelso, Charlton Heston as Adm. 'Skeet' Kelso, Peter Boyle as Arnold Teague, Annabel Schofield as Alex Noffe, Corin Nemec as Mike Kelso and Jack Palance as Travis. The executive producers were Takeshi Kawata and Takehito Sadamura, with Richard Edlund as one of the producers.
This film received a MPAA rating of PG-13, and was filmed in color with Dolby SR stereo sound. Estimated budget was about $55,000,000. It had a very limited theatrical release.
A huge solar flare is predicted to fry the Earth. Astronauts aboard the spaceship Helios must go to the Sun to drop a bomb equipped with an Artificial Intelligence (Freddy) and a Japanese pilot (as a backup if the Artificial Intelligence fails) at the right time so the flare will point somewhere else. Giant IXL Corp CEO Teague thinks the flare will not happen and wants the mission to fail so he can buy the planet cheaply while the scare lasts. Employee Haas prepares a surprise for the astronauts. While Steve Kelso commands the space ship where temperature rises, Steve's father Admiral 'Skeet' Kelso is searching the desert for Steve' son Mike who has gone AWOL to say goodbye to his dad but who inadvertently crossed the path of the guys from IXL after meeting desert-dweller Travis.
The novel Starfire by Paul Preuss, about a near-future spacecraft making a close encounter with the sun, appears to have a connection with this movie.

