Melancholia
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 135
Director: Lars von Trier
Cast: Kirsten Dunst,Charlotte Gainsbourg,Kiefer Sutherland,Alexander Skarsgård,Cameron Spurr,Charlotte Rampling,John Hurt,Jesper Christensen,Stellan Skarsgård,Brady Corbet,Udo Kier,
Content: Lars Von Trier's Melancholia, a meditation on depression and the end of the world, stars Kirsten Dunst as an emotionally troubled newlywed named Justine, whose sister Claire (Charlotte Gainsbourg) throws her a lavish wedding party. While her lack of emotional stability begins to take a toll on Justine's new marriage as well as the party -- and old wounds are exposed -- Claire's wealthy husband John (Kiefer Sutherland) also knows a great deal about a planet that is on a possible collision course with Earth, further muddying the waters. The second half of the movie focuses on Claire, who ends up taking her sister in after the marriage collapses, and also begins to fear that John is hiding apocalyptically bad news. John Hurt and Charlotte Rampling co-star. Melancholia screened at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
Melancholia is a 2011 apocalyptic drama film written and directed by Lars von Trier, starring Kirsten Dunst, Charlotte Gainsbourg, Alexander Skarsgård and Kiefer Sutherland. The narrative revolves around two sisters during and shortly after one's wedding, while Earth is about to collide with an approaching rogue planet. The film prominently features music from the prelude to Richard Wagner's opera Tristan und Isolde (1857–59).
Von Trier's initial inspiration for the film came from a depressive episode he suffered and the insight that depressed people remain calm in stressful situations. The film is a Danish production by Zentropa, with international co-producers in Sweden, France, and Germany. Filming took place in Sweden.
The film premiered in May 2011 at the 64th Cannes Film Festival. Dunst received the festival's Best Actress Award for her performance.
The film begins with an introductory sequence involving the main characters and images from space and introducing many of the film's visual leitmotifs. The film continues in two parts.
Newlyweds Justine and Michael arrive two hours late to their own reception at the family estate where Justine's sister Claire and her husband John reside. Justine happens to notice a particularly bright red star in the twilight sky which John identifies as Antares.
Over the course of the evening, Justine (Kirsten Dunst) is frustrated by various personal and professional difficulties. Her mother (Charlotte Rampling) insults her in a toast. Justine's boss (Stellan Skarsgard) repeatedly harasses her to write better ad copy. Claire becomes frustrated with Justine and chastises her for not reacting to the reception with the joy she had anticipated. Justine drifts away from the party several times. Michael attempts to console Justine with a wedding present – an apple orchard – but Justine seems unmoved. When she and Michael retreat to their room for the evening, she brushes off his advances and goes walking on the grounds where she has sex with a coworker. At the end of the party, Michael abandons her. At dawn the next day, Justine reluctantly goes horseback riding with her sister Claire when she notices that the bright red star has disappeared.
Justine has become severely depressed and stays with Claire (Charlotte Gainsbourg) and John (Kiefer Sutherland). Justine is in fact almost catatonic and unable even to bathe herself.
John explains that the reason for Antares' disappearance was the rogue planet Melancholia blocking the star from view. Melancholia, a large blue planet that had formerly been hidden behind the sun, becomes visible in the sky as it approaches ever closer to Earth. John is excited about the planet and looks forward to the "fly-by" predicted by scientists.
Claire becomes very fearful that the end of the world is imminent in spite of her husband's reassurances that everyone will be safe. She searches the Internet and finds an article predicting that the movements of Melancholia around the Earth will bring the two planets into a full-on collision soon afterward. Justine claims to possess a kind of special insight or intuition. She tells Claire that life on Earth is evil and that Melancholia is here to bring it all to an end. On the night of the fly-by it seems that Melancholia will merely pass very near without striking the Earth. The next day, however, Claire realizes that Melancholia is circling back and will collide with Earth after all. She searches for John and finds him dead of an apparent suicide.
Faced with the impending collision, Claire becomes distraught and suggests getting together on the terrace with wine and music. In response, a surprisingly calm and upbeat Justine dismisses her idea before going to comfort Claire's son, Leo. She makes him a protective magic teepee on the lawn of the estate. Justine, Claire and Leo enter the rickety wooden shelter as the planet Melancholia looms large. In the final seconds, a shockwave with fire overcomes the characters, presumably destroying the Earth.

