The_Day_the_Sky_Exploded
Released Year: 1957
Running time: 82
Director: Paolo Heusch
Cast: 
Content: A scientific experiment gone leaves the fate of the world hanging in the balance in this sci-fi thriller. The United States, the Soviet Union, and Great Britain join forces to launch a manned space mission, but things go terribly wrong and crew leader John MacLaren (Paul Hubschmid) is forced to abandon ship shortly after blast off. MacLaren safely returns to Earth, but the rocket continues to sail through space, eventually reaching the sun and causing it to break apart. The consequences are immediate and disastrous -- asteroids pummel the planet, Earthquakes and extreme weather conditions tear at the world's major cities, and the world's scientific community bands together in a last-ditch effort to stop the disaster before it's too late. Le Danger Vient de l'Escape (released in the United States as The Day The Sky Exploded features top-notch cinematography from European horror legend Mario Bava. 
Wiki info: 
The Day the Sky Exploded (Italian: La morte viene dallo spazio) is a 1958 Italian science fiction film directed by Paolo Heusch. It is known as the first Italian sci-fi dramatic film. It starred Paul Hubschmid and Fiorella Mari, and was also released in France and West Germany. It was also known as Death Comes from Space, recalling the original Italian title.
An atomic rocket is launched on a manned moon mission, but one of the engines malfunctions. The rocket's steering is broken. The pilot disengages the capsule and returns to earth. The atomic booster, however, continues on, eventually crashing into and exploding in an asteroid belt. The explosion dislodges many asteroids from their orbits. They coalesce into one giant cluster and are heading for earth. As the cluster approaches earth it causes global scale disasters: tidal waves, wind, fire storms and earthquakes. One scientist loses his sanity in the crisis and disables the great computer needed to calculate all the firing data. He is stopped and the data provided. But when no reasonable hope can be on the possibility that humans could eventually avoid the crash, scientists finds that moon will pass in front of the cluster so that most of it will be shielded. Hovever a small part of the cluster is not shielded and goes towards the earth. At this point, mankind's only hope is to arm every missile on earth with a nuclear warhead and fire them all at the cluster. The nations of the world band together and fire the volley. The cluster is destroyed.
In the English version of the movie, the sun was not mentioned as the source of the asteroids. From the movie:
In the French version of the movie however, the atomic rocket stage exploded later in Asteroid belt hurtling meteors on a collision course with earth.
Nearing the climax of the film, the main character (and rocket pilot) John McLaren says:
The Day the Sky Exploded was an Italian-French co-production. however in Germany the movie was often considered as a German-Italian film. In fact the movie has an unusually high number of German actors for an Italian movie. Next to Paul Hubschmid were Eddi Arent and others actors from famous German Edgar Wallace "Krimi" movies. Some German sci-fi movie literature claims the movie director is German Paul Heusch, Paolo being a misspelling of Paul while Heusch is a German family name.

