The_Nutcracker_in_3D
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 108
Director: Andrei Konchalovsky
Cast: Elle Fanning,Charlie Rowe,John Turturro,Frances de la Tour,Nathan Lane,Aaron Michael Drozin,Richard E. Grant,Julia Vysotskaya,
Content: A dejected nine-year-old girl finds her dreary Christmas in Vienna magically transformed by an enchanted gift in director Andrei Konchalovsky's adaptation of the timeless holiday classic. Just as it begins to look as if Christmas is going to be a total bust, young Mary (Elle Fanning) receives a gorgeously crafted nutcracker from her adoring uncle Albert (Nathan Lane). Later, as night falls on Christmas, the Nutcracker (Charlie Rowe) springs to life, and whisks Mary away on a breathtaking tour of the place where all Christmas gifts come alive. But something is amiss in this captivating world of wonder; the malevolent Rat King (John Turturro) and his wicked mother (Frances de la Tour) are plotting to claim the entire kingdom for themselves, and when they kidnap the Nutcracker, Mary teams up with the other toys to get him back. Saving the kingdom won't be easy, though, because before Mary and her friends can rescue the Nutcracker and restore order, they'll have to discover the Rat King's one true weakness, and summon the courage to strike back when he least expects it. The film features eight new songs by Oscar winner Sir Tim Rice (Aladdin, The Lion King). 
Wiki info: 
The Nutcracker in 3D (released on DVD as The Nutcracker: The Untold Story) is a 2010 British-Hungarian 3D fantasy film adaption of the ballet The Nutcracker, directed by Andrei Konchalovsky. The film met with universally negative reviews from critics upon its release, and became a major failure at the box office. The film does not credit the original The Nutcracker and the Mouse King story, nor its author E. T. A. Hoffmann.
Mary's seemingly dull Christmas is suddenly filled with excitement and adventure following the arrival of her Uncle Albert, who gives her a Nutcracker as a gift. Later that night, Mary dreams that the Nutcracker (called N.C.) comes to life and takes her on a wondrous journey. They discover that the Nazi-like Rat King has usurped the Nutcracker's kingdom.
In the climax of the film, the Nutcracker appears to have been killed, but Mary's tears and declaration of love restore him to life and transforms him into a prince, his true form. The rats are all defeated and overthrown, but now Mary must reluctantly awaken from her dream. Before, she's fully awake by N.C.'s promise that they'll meet again. After she does so, she goes to Uncle Albert's workshop, where she meets his new young neighbor, who is the exact image of the Nutcracker Prince and who asks to be called N.C. The two become close friends, and the last shot of the film shows them ice skating together.

