Jurassic_Park
Released Year: 1993
Running time: 127
Director: Steven Spielberg
Cast: Sam Neill,Laura Dern,Jeff Goldblum,Richard Attenborough,Ariana Richards,Joseph Mazzello,Bob Peck,Martin Ferrero,Wayne Knight,Samuel L. Jackson,Cameron Thor,Miguel Sandoval,Gerald R. Molen,B. D. Wong,Richard Kiley,
Content: Steven Spielberg's phenomenally successful sci-fi adventure thriller is graced by state-of-the-art special effects from the team of Stan Winston, Phil Tippett and Michael Lantieri from George Lucas's Industrial Light & Magic. The film follows two dinosaur experts -- Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) and Dr. Ellie Sattler Laura Dern) -- as they are invited by eccentric millionaire John Hammond (Richard Attenborough) to preview his new amusement park on an island off Costa Rica. By cloning DNA harvested from pre-historic insects, Hammond has been able to create living dinosaurs for his new Jurassic Park, an immense animal preserve housing real brachiosaurs, dilophosaurs, triceratops, velociraptors, and a Tyrannosaur Rex. Accompanied by cynical scientist Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum), who is obsessed with chaos theory, and Hammond's two grandchildren (Ariana Richards and Joseph Mazzello), they are sent on a tour through Hammond's new resort in computer controlled touring cars. But as a tropical storm hits the island, knocking out the power supply, and an unscrupulous employee (Wayne Knight) sabotages the system so that he can smuggle dinosaur embryos out of the park, the dinosaurs start to rage out of control. Grant then has to bring Hammond's grandchildren back to safety as the group is pursued by the gigantic man-eating beasts. 
Wiki info: 
Jurassic Park is a 1993 American science fiction adventure film directed by Steven Spielberg, and is based on the novel of the same name by Michael Crichton. It stars Sam Neill, Laura Dern, Jeff Goldblum, Richard Attenborough, Ariana Richards, Joseph Mazzello, Martin Ferrero and Bob Peck. The film centers on the fictional Isla Nublar near Costa Rica's Pacific Coast, where a billionaire philanthropist and a small team of genetic scientists have created an amusement park of cloned dinosaurs.
Before Crichton's book was even published, many studios had already begun bidding to acquire the picture rights. Spielberg, with the backing of Universal Studios, acquired the rights before publication in 1990, and Crichton was hired for an additional $500,000 to adapt the novel for the screen. David Koepp wrote the final draft, which left out much of the novel's exposition and violence, and made numerous changes to the characters. Filming took place in California and Hawaii.
Jurassic Park is regarded as a landmark in the use of computer-generated imagery, and received positive reviews from most critics. The film grossed over $900 million worldwide, surpassing another Spielberg film, E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial, to become the highest-grossing film released up to that time (it was surpassed four years later by Titanic). It currently ranks as the 25th-highest-grossing film worldwide, and 20th-highest-grossing film in North America, adjusted for inflation. It is the highest-grossing film produced by Universal and directed by Spielberg. Jurassic Park won the Academy Award for Best Sound Mixing, Best Sound Editing, and Best Visual Effects.
The film's success led to two sequels being made: The Lost World: Jurassic Park also directed by Spielberg, which was released on May 23, 1997, and Jurassic Park III, directed by Joe Johnston, which was released on July 18, 2001. A 3D re-release is due for April 5, 2013, to commemorate the movie's 20th Anniversary. Jurassic Park 4 is slated to be released on June 13, 2014 in 3D.
John Hammond, CEO of InGen, has created Jurassic Park: a theme park on a tropical island near Costa Rica, populated with cloned dinosaurs. After a workman is killed by a dinosaur, Hammond's investors, represented by attorney Donald Gennaro, demand that experts visit the park and certify it as safe. Gennaro invites mathematician Dr. Ian Malcolm while Hammond invites paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant and paleobotanist Dr. Ellie Sattler. They are joined by Hammond's grandchildren, Lex and Tim Murphy. The group sets off in a pair of electric SUVs on a tour of the park, while Hammond stays in the Visitor's Center to observe his guests from Jurassic Park's control room. With him are chief engineer Ray Arnold and game warden Robert Muldoon. The tour does not go as Hammond plans: some of the dinosaurs, including Dilophosaurus and Tyrannosaurus, fail to show, and the Triceratops has fallen ill.
An incoming tropical storm forces a cancellation of the rest of the tour, while most of the park employees depart on a boat for the mainland. Everyone returns to the electric vehicles except Ellie, who stays with the park's veterinarian to study the Triceratops.
Jurassic Park's computer programmer, Dennis Nedry, has been paid off by one of InGen's corporate rivals to steal dinosaur embryos. During the theft, Nedry deactivates the park's security system to allow him access to the embryo storage room. Many of the park's electric fences are deactivated as a result, releasing a Tyrannosaurus that attacks the tour group, killing Gennaro and injuring Malcolm. Grant, Lex, and Tim narrowly escape. Nedry becomes disoriented by the heavy rain and crashes his car; while attempting to winch his car he is attacked and killed by a Dilophosaurus.
Sattler and Muldoon search for survivors, but only find Malcolm before they are attacked by the T. rex and return to the visitor center. Unable to decipher Nedry's code to reactivate the security system, Arnold and Hammond opt to reboot the park's computer and electrical network. The group shuts down the park's grid and retreat to an emergency bunker, while Arnold heads to a maintenance shed to complete the process of rebooting the system. When he fails to return, Sattler and Muldoon head to the shed themselves.
The shutdown disables the remaining fences, releasing three dangerous Velociraptors, which hunt Sattler and Muldoon. Muldoon draws their attention while Sattler continues to the shed. She restarts the park's systems and finds not only a raptor, but also Arnold's severed arm. The raptors ambush and kill Muldoon.
Grant, Lex, and Tim climb an electric fence out of the park's animal zone; Tim is nearly killed when the fence is reactivated. They reach the Visitor Center and Grant leaves the children in the dining area while he searches for Sattler and the others. The children escape two raptors, locking one in a freezer, before reuniting with Grant and Sattler. The four make their way to the control room, where Lex restores the park's security systems. Grant contacts Hammond and tells him to call the mainland for rescue before two raptors attack them. Grant's group is cornered by the raptors but escapes when the T. rex storms the visitor center. A helicopter arrives to take the survivors back to the mainland.

