The_Secret_of_the_Sword
Released Year: 1985
Running time: 90
Director: Gwen Wetzler
Cast: John Erwin,Melendy Britt,Alan Oppenheimer,Linda Gary,George DiCenzo,Erika Scheimer,Lou Scheimer,
Content: This sword-and-sorcery animated feature basically stars two "toys" -- She-Ra (voice of Melanie Britt) and He-Man (voice of John Erwin). Princess Adora has a special destiny -- to manifest as She-Ra and save Etheria from the really nasty Horde -- but she is not aware of her power-to-be. When Prince Adam (who is really He-Man) goes to Etheria to find the future She-Ra, his job is cut out for him -- or at least drawn out in standard animation but with added visual tricks that entertain the eye. He and She-Ra wreak havoc on the nasties, so violence is not absent -- just concentrated on the enemies. This feature was quickly followed by She-Ra: Princess of Power in 1986. 
Wiki info: 
He-Man and She-Ra: The Secret of the Sword is a 1985 American animated feature film produced by Filmation. Although released before the series She-Ra: Princess of Power began, the film was a compilation of the first five episodes with minor edits made. The film was part of a trend of theatrically released animations created by producers of TV shows and toys during the 1980s.
In this exciting animated adventure, He-Man travels to the world of Etheria. He-Man is to give a special sword to someone who believes in good. On Etheria, He-Man is captured by Force Captain Adora, a member of a band of villains known as the Horde who turns out to be the very person he was sent to find. However Adora is really He-Man's twin sister. As it turns out, the Horde stole Adora from their home world of Eternia when she was a baby. Adora is contacted by the Sorceress who reveals the truth about her past. She also tells her that He-Man is really her own brother. Adora uses the special sword to become She-Ra, Princess of Power. As She-Ra, she sets her brother, He-Man free. Reunited, He-Man and She-Ra join forces to reunite the royal family of Eternia. 

