2012
Released Year: 2009
Running time: 158
Director: Roland Emmerich
Cast: John Cusack,Chiwetel Ejiofor,Amanda Peet,Liam James,Morgan Lily,Thomas McCarthy,Danny Glover,Thandie Newton,Oliver Platt,Woody Harrelson,John Billingsley,Ryan McDonald,Jimi Mistry,Osric Chau,Tseng Chang,Lisa Lu,Zlatko Burić,Beatrice Rosen,Alexandre and Philippe Haussmann,Johann Urb,Blu Mankuma,George Segal,Stephen McHattie,Patrick Bauchau,Dean Marshall,Henry O,
Content: Disaster movie maven Roland Emmerich (Independence Day, The Day After Tomorrow) crafts this apocalyptic sci-fi thriller following the prophecy stated by the ancient Mayan calendar, which says that the world will come to an end on December 21, 2012. When a global cataclysm thrusts the world into chaos, divorced writer and father Jackson Curtis (John Cusack) joins the race to ensure that humankind is not completely wiped out. Chiwetel Ejiofor, Danny Glover, Amanda Peet, Thandie Newton, and Oliver Platt round out the cast of this end-of-the-world thriller co-scripted by the director and his 10,000 B.C. writercomposer, Harald Kloser. 
Wiki info: 
2012 is a 2009 American science fiction disaster film directed and co-written by Roland Emmerich. It stars John Cusack, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Amanda Peet, Oliver Platt, Thandie Newton, Danny Glover, and Woody Harrelson, among others. It was produced by Emmerich's production company, Centropolis Entertainment, and was distributed by Columbia Pictures. Filming began in August 2008 in Vancouver, although it was originally planned to be filmed in Los Angeles.
The plot follows Jackson Curtis (John Cusack) as he attempts to bring his children, Noah (Liam James) and Lilly (Morgan Lily), ex-wife Kate Curtis (Amanda Peet), and her boyfriend, Gordon Silberman (Thomas McCarthy) to refuge and attempt to escape the heightened change in the elements. The film includes references to Mayanism, the Mesoamerican Long Count calendar, and the 2012 phenomenon in its portrayal of cataclysmic events unfolding in the year 2012. Emmerich has announced that the film will be his last involving disasters.
After a prolonged marketing campaign comprising the creation of a website from the point of view of the main character, Jackson Curtis, and a viral marketing website on which filmgoers could register for a lottery number to save them from the ensuing disaster, the film was internationally released on November&#160;13,&#160;2009. Critics gave 2012 mixed reviews, praising its special effects and tone but criticizing its length (158 minutes) and screenwriting. Despite this, the film, budgeted at $200 million, has a worldwide theatrical revenue that reached approximately $770&#160;million.
In 2009, Adrian Helmsley, an American geologist, visits astrophysicist Dr. Satnam Tsurutani in India and learns that neutrinos from a massive solar flare are causing the temperature of the Earth's core to increase rapidly. Adrian reports to White House Chief of Staff Carl Anheuser, who takes Adrian to meet the President of the United States.
In 2010, President Thomas Wilson and other international leaders begin a secret project to ensure humanity's survival. More than 400,000 people are chosen to board "arks" that are constructed at Cho Ming, Tibet, in the southwest Chinese Himalayas under the guise of building a dam. A Buddhist monk named Nima is evacuated while his brother Tenzin joins the workers in the Ark project. Additional funding for the project is raised by selling tickets to the private sector for €1&#160;billion per person. By 2011, humanity's treasures are moved to the Alps under the guise of protecting them from terrorist attacks with the help of art expert and First Daughter Dr. Laura Wilson.
In 2012, Jackson Curtis is a science fiction writer in Los Angeles who works part-time as a limousine driver for the Russian billionaire, Yuri Karpov. Jackson's ex-wife Kate, and their children Noah and Lilly, live with Kate's boyfriend, plastic surgeon Gordon Silberman.
Jackson takes Noah and Lilly camping in Yellowstone National Park. After an encounter with Helmsley, they meet Charlie Frost, who hosts a radio show from the park. Charlie plays a video of Charles Hapgood's theory that polar shifts and the Mesoamerican Long Count Calendar predict that the 2012 phenomenon will occur. He has a map of the ark project in addition to information about officials and scientists from around the world who were murdered because they wanted to reveal the truth to the public. The family returns home as seismic activity increases along the San Andreas Fault. Jackson grows suspicious and rents a Cessna 340 to rescue his family. He collects his family and Gordon as the Earth crust displacement begins with a magnitude 10.9 earthquake in LA, and they narrowly escape the city as California collapses into the Pacific Ocean.
As millions die in catastrophic earthquakes worldwide, the group flies to Yellowstone to retrieve Charlie's map, escaping as the Yellowstone Caldera erupts. Charlie stays behind to broadcast the eruption and is killed. Learning that the arks are in China, the group lands in a devastated Las Vegas to find a larger plane. They run into Yuri, his twin sons Alec and Oleg, girlfriend Tamara and pilot Sasha. The group secures an Antonov An-500 aircraft and they depart for China as the Yellowstone ash cloud engulfs the city. Anheuser, Helmsley and Laura Wilson are aboard Air Force One, also heading to the arks. President Wilson remains in Washington D.C. to address the nation one last time. With the Vice President dead and the Speaker of the House missing, Anheuser assumes de facto leadership. Later, the earth crust displacement finally halts, triggering megatsunamis. President Wilson and the other remaining civilians and officials are killed by one of the megatsunamis that sends the aircraft carrier USS John F. Kennedy crashing into the White House, along with Helmsley's father, and presumably any remaining survivors around the globe.
Arriving in China in a crash landing that kills Sasha, the group is spotted by helicopters from the Chinese army, carrying animals for the Arks. Yuri and his sons, possessing tickets, are taken to the arks, leaving Tamara and the others behind. They are coincidentally picked up by Nima and his grandparents and are taken to the arks, with the help of Tenzin. As they stow away on Ark 4, where the contingent of the United States is on board, Dr. Tsurutani contacts Helmsley, stating that he and his family did not make it to the arks, and that an unforeseen megatsunami is approaching the site at an alarming rate. Dr. Tsurutani is then quickly killed by the megatsunami. This quickly causes panic among the arks, and the world leaders directs the boarding gates of the arks to close, leaving hundreds of passengers and workers outside. Fearing that they have been left to die, they began to stampede to the front of the gates, which causes more fatality.
Furious, Helmsley speaks to the world leaders to have let the people enter, which Anheuser denies, stating that they have limited resources and time, and allowing the people to enter would ensure the demise of the human race. Helmsley quotes "the moment we stop fighting for each other, that's the moment we lose our humanity," and explains that not opening the gates would be a degradation to the human civilization. Eventually, other world leaders come to the decision to let the people in, and the crowd cheers as the gates reopen. As the gates start to close however, Yuri, one of the last ones to board the ship, sacrifices himself in order for his sons to enter the ark before it closes.
At the same time, an impact driver used for Jackson and the others to enter the ark accidentally becomes lodged in the gears of the ark's hydraulic gates, killing Gordon and wounding Tenzin. The impact driver prevents the gate from closing and also prevents the ship from starting its engines. Air Force One, carried by the incoming megatsunami, collides with Ark 4, setting it adrift. Jackson, Nima, and their families become separated and trapped in watertight compartments, which kills Tamara. With the help from Helmsley, Jackson and Noah dislodge the impact driver and the crew regains control of the ark before it collides with Mount Everest.
After flood waters from the tsunamis recede, the arks travel to the Cape of Good Hope in South Africa, where the African continent has risen in elevation. Jackson rejoins with his family, and Helmsley starts a relationship with Laura.

