The_Time_of_the_Wolf
Released Year: 2003
Running time: 109
Director: Michael Haneke
Cast: Isabelle Huppert – Anne Laurent,Beatrice Dalle – Lise Brandt,Patrice Chereau – Thomas Brandt,Rona Hartner – Arina,Maurice Benichou – M. Azoulay,Olivier Gourmet – Koslowski,Brigitte Roüan – Bea,Lucas Biscombe – Ben,Hakim Taleb – Young runaway,Anaïs Demoustier – Eva,Serge Riaboukine – The leader,Marilyne Even – Mme Azoulay,Florence Loiret – Nathalie Azoulay (as Florence Loiret-Caille),Branko Samarovski – Policeman,Daniel Duval – Georges Laurent,
Content: On the heels of his award-winning, emotionally devastating 2001 drama The Piano Teacher, German filmmaker Michael Haneke weaves this disturbing tale of a family forced into a harrowing confrontation with a group of strangers set against the backdrop of a global apocalypse. In the aftermath of an unseen but catastrophic global disaster, a shaken family slowly makes their way to the presumed safety of a holiday home in the French countryside. Upon arrival, the family discovers their home inhabited by a woman and a horrified man. When a shot rings out, a life is taken, and time seems to stand still. In the aftermath of unspeakable violence, it appears that the only hope for a band of desperate refugees lies in a nearby train station and a locomotive that -- despite their most optimistic hopes and prayers -- may never actually arrive. 
Wiki info: 
Time of the Wolf (French: Le Temps du Loup) is a dystopian post-apocalyptic drama film, directed by Austrian director Michael Haneke. It was released theatrically in 2003. Set in France at an undisclosed time, the film follows the story of a family: Georges (Daniel Duval), Anne (Isabelle Huppert) and their two children Eva (Anaïs Demoustier) and Ben (Lucas Biscombe).
A disaster of some type has occurred, of which the audience only knows that uncontaminated water is scarce and livestock have to be burned. Fleeing the city, the family arrive at their country home, hoping to find refuge and security, only to discover that it is already occupied by strangers.
The family are assaulted by the strangers and forced to leave with no supplies or transport. As they seek help from people they have known in the village the scale of the situation is realised when they are repeatedly turned away. The family make their way to a train station where they wait with other survivors in the hope that a train will stop for them and take them back to the city.

