Andromedia
Released Year: 2000
Running time: 109
Director: Takashi Miike
Cast: Hiroko Shimabukuro,Eriko Imai,Takako Uehara,Hitoe Arakaki,Kenji Harada,Ryô Karato,Christopher Doyle,Tomorowo Taguchi,Issa Hentona,Shinobu Miyara,Yukinari Tamaki,Ken Okumoto,Anna Ide,Akihiro Yoshikawa,Kazuki Kitamura,Michelle Gazepis,Hiromi Suzuki,Naoto Takenaka,Tsunehiko Watase,
Content: Japan's renegade horror filmmaker Takashi Miike reveals a more subtle (but no less adventurous) side to his cinematic personality in this offbeat example of thinking person's science fiction. Mai (Hiroko Shimabukuro) is a youngster whose father (Tsunehiko Watase) is a scientist who is working on a system to record a person's memory and personality as computer data. As Mai edges into young adulthood, her interest in boys begins to compromise her long-standing friendships, and she is beginning to suffer pangs of guilt for it when she is killed in an auto accident during a date. Mai's father, using his experimental technology, had already recorded his daughter's thoughts and memories into his computer, and is able to create a virtual version of her, Ai, who is able to lead a life of her own. But a less-than-scrupulous technology firm has nefarious plans for this invention, and soon Ai, her fathercreator, and her friends are on the run from a team of shadowy assassins. Leading lady Hiroko Shimabukuro is best known in Japan as a member of the best-selling teen pop group Speed; the other members of the group also appear in the supporting cast. 
Wiki info: 
Andromedia (Japanese name: Andoromedia) is a 1998 Japanese film directed by Takashi Miike, featuring the Japanese musical groups SPEED and Da Pump.
Hiroko Shimabukuro plays the character of Mai Hitomi, who gives her boyfriend Yuu his first kiss and is promptly hit by a truck. She is then recreated as an AI by her father, a scientist, who had completely scanned ("digitized") her before her death. The film depicts the continuing love between Yuu and the digital copy of Mai, who can only interact across the computer terminal.

