Contagion
Released Year: 2001
Running time: 95
Director: John Murlowski
Cast: Marion Cotillard,Matt Damon,Laurence Fishburne,Jude Law,Gwyneth Paltrow,Kate Winslet,Bryan Cranston,Jennifer Ehle,Elliott Gould,Chin Han,John Hawkes,Anna Jacoby-Heron,Josie Ho,Sanaa Lathan,Demetri Martin,Armin Rohde,Enrico Colantoni,Larry Clarke,Monique Gabriela Curnen,Amr Waked,
Content: Known as The Last Breath on cable TV and Epidemic abroad, this contemporary technothriller was filmed in 2001 under the title Contagion. When the President of the United States (Bruce Boxleitner) is struck by a poisoned dart, a shadowy terrorist claims that the Chief Executive has been infected with a lethal virus, for which the terrorist has the only antidote. As frenzied negotations proceed between the Government and the assailant, virologist Dr. Diane Landis (Megan Gallagher) races against time to save the President's life and avoid a worldwide crisis, with or without the aid of the typically uncooperative Secret Service. Even though the basic situation is fraught with thrills and terror, somehow or other the film climaxes with an out-of-left field cliffhanger involving a child in jeaopardy. Withheld from release in the wake of the Anthrax scares attending the terrorist attack of September 11, 2001, Contagion was finally seen by American viewers courtesy of the Lifetime network on October 7, 2003. 
Wiki info: 
Contagion is a 2011 medical thriller disaster film. Directed by Steven Soderbergh, the film features an ensemble cast that includes Marion Cotillard, Bryan Cranston, Matt Damon, Laurence Fishburne, Jude Law, Gwyneth Paltrow, Kate Winslet, and Jennifer Ehle. Contagion's plot documents the spread of a virus transmitted by fomites, attempts by medical researchers and public health officials to identify and contain the disease, the loss of social order in a pandemic, and finally the introduction of a vaccine to halt its spread. The film makes use of a "hyperlink narrative" style popularized in several of Soderbergh's other films to follow several interacting plot lines.
Soderbergh and screenwriter Scott Z. Burns had collaborated on The Informant! (2009). Following that film's release, the two considered creating a biopic covering Leni Riefenstahl's life before Burns brought up the idea of producing a medical thriller film depicting a virus' rapid spread, which was inspired by various pandemics such as the 2003 SARS epidemic and the 2009 flu pandemic. To devise an accurate perception of a pandemic event, Burns consulted with representatives of the World Health Organization as well as noted medical experts such as W. Ian Lipkin and Lawrence "Larry" Brilliant. Principal photography started in Hong Kong in September, and continued in Chicago, Atlanta, London, Geneva, and San Francisco until February 2011.
Contagion premiered at the 68th Venice Film Festival in Venice, Italy on September 3, 2011, and went into general release on September 9. The film was well received by critics, who praised the narratives and the performances of various actors and actresses. It was also well received by scientists, who praised its accuracy. Commercially, the film was a box office success. Budgeted at US$60 million, Contagion went on to acquire US$135 million during its theatrical run.
After a business trip to Macao, businesswoman Beth Emhoff (Gwyneth Paltrow) stops in Chicago to have a sexual encounter with an old boyfriend before returning to her family in suburban Minneapolis. At first, she appears to have contracted a cold during her trip. Her son, Clark, also becomes symptomatic and is sent home from school. Beth's condition worsens and two days later she collapses with severe seizures in her home. Her husband, Mitch (Matt Damon), rushes her to the hospital, but she continues to have seizures and dies of an unknown cause. Because it affects the brain and central nervous system, pathologists attribute it to a meningoencephalitis virus. Mitch returns home and finds that Clark has also died from a similar infection. Mitch is put in isolation but turns out to be immune to the disease. He and his teenaged daughter attempt to flee the city, but a military quarantine has been imposed, and they're forced to return to their home to face decaying social order and rampant looting of stores and homes. Not knowing whether his daughter inherited his immunity, Mitch struggles with her frustration with quarantine with his desire to protect her, while trying to come to terms with his own loss.
In Atlanta, representatives of the Department of Homeland Security meet with Dr. Ellis Cheever (Laurence Fishburne) of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and express fears that the disease is a bioweapon intended to cause terror over the Thanksgiving weekend. Cheever sends Dr. Erin Mears (Kate Winslet), an Epidemic Intelligence Service officer, to Minneapolis to begin the investigation. In addition to tracing the outbreak back to Beth, Dr. Mears has to negotiate with local bureaucrats reluctant to commit resources. She later becomes infected with the disease. The Minnesota National Guard arrives to quarantine the city, and Dr. Mears is moved to the field medical station she helped set up, where she later dies.
At the CDC, Dr. Ally Hextall (Jennifer Ehle) finds that the virus is mix of genetic material from pig and bat viruses. Investigations into cures via treatment protocols or vaccines initially stalls as scientists can't find a cell culture to grow the new virus, which has been named the Meningoencephalitis Virus One (MEV-1). Professor Ian Sussman (Elliott Gould) violates orders from CDC scientist Dr. Hextall to destroy his samples and identifies a line of bat cells that will support research of a vaccine. At the CDC, Dr. Hextall uses this breakthrough to begin to investigate possible vaccines. The virus turns out to spread via fomites with a basic reproduction number of two, that is, each patient infects two more patients on average. This later goes up to four after the virus mutates.
Alan Krumwiede (Jude Law), a conspiracy theorist, posts videos about the disease, and in one of them appears sick and later claims that he recovered using a homeopathic cure derived from forsythia. People attempting to obtain forsythia overwhelm pharmacies, accelerating the contagion as infected and healthy people congregate. Krumwiede leaps to national attention and, during a television interview, accuses Dr. Cheever of informing friends and family to leave Chicago before a quarantine is imposed. It is later revealed Krumwiede was never sick with the virus, but was attempting to boost demand on behalf of investors in the companies producing and distributing the homeopathic treatment. He is arrested for conspiracy and fraud, but is soon released after his 12 million blog readers collect and pay his bail.
Dr. Hextall identifies a potential vaccine, using an attenuated virus. Because of the difficulties of human subjects testing, she follows the precedent of other vaccine researchers and inoculates herself first. Hextall visits her gravely ill father in the hospital to expose herself to the virus and test the vaccine. The vaccine's production is rapidly ramped up and the CDC awards vaccinations via a random lottery based on birth dates for one full year until every survivor is vaccinated. Dr. Cheever, whose phone call to his girlfriend warning her to leave Chicago ahead of the quarantine, was overheard by the CDC's janitor, later gives his fast-tracked MEV-1 vaccination to the janitor's son. Dr. Hextall places the MEV-1 virus' surviving samples in cryogenic storage with H1N1 and SARS.
Dr. Leonora Orantes (Marion Cotillard), a World Health Organization epidemiologist, travels to Hong Kong to trace the origins of the infections. She collaborates with Sun Feng (Chin Han) and other local epidemiologists and public health officials and they identify Beth Emhoff as patient zero. As the virus spreads, Feng kidnaps Orantes to use her as leverage to obtain the first MEV-1 vaccines for his village. Orantes spends months living with the villagers until the vaccine is announced. Feng exchanges Orantes for the vaccines, which turn out to be placebos. When she is informed of this, Orantes, who has grown close to the villagers, rushes away to warn them.
In the film's final moments, an extended flashback explains the virus' outbreak. A man driving a bulldozer that works for Beth's company knocks down a palm tree where bats are nesting. The bats become disturbed and fly away. One of the bats is carrying a virus; it flies onto a banana plant and eats a chunk of the banana. The bat then roosts on a water supply pipe, over a pig pen. The bat drops a chunk of the banana out of its mouth and into the pig pen, where a pig eats the banana, and demonstrates the chain of contagion with the bat's disease, creating a bat-pig hybrid. The next day, a group of Chinese chefs collect piglets from the same pen and take them to a casino. One of the chefs butchers the diseased piglet and is shown preparing it for roasting. The chef is approached and called away from his preparations, and casually wipes his hands on his apron. The chef later greets and shakes hands with Beth Emhoff, making him patient zero the origin of the MEV-1 Virus.

