Barbie:_A_Fairy_Secret
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 90
Director: William Lau
Cast: Diana Kaarina,Adrian Petriw,Britt Irvin,Cassandra Morris,Kate Higgins,Alexandra Carter,Brittney Wilson,Silvio Pollio,
Content: This animated release for kids follows Barbie on a fun adventure, when Ken is magically transported by a bunch of fairies, and what's more, Barbie's two best friends turn out to secretly be fairies too. Now, in order to bring Ken back, Barbie will embark on a lovely adventure into the realm of winged friends. 
Wiki info: 
Barbie: A Fairy Secret is a computer animated direct-to-video movie and part of the Barbie film series. It was released on  March 15, 2011, and was also released in cinemas created by Cinedigm.
Barbie is at the premiere of her latest movie when her co-star and rival, Raquelle, steps on her dress, ripping it. Her stylists, Carrie and Taylor, secretly being fairies, use magic to mend it. Crystal, another fairy, greets Carrie and Taylor and goes back to Gloss Angeles, taking one final picture of Ken.
Back in Gloss Angeles, Crystal shows Princess Graciella the pictures she took at the premiere. She gives the Princess a love potion, which turns her eyes from blue to purple. Crystal then shows the Princess the picture of Ken she took, and Graciella falls in love with him on the spot.
The next day at Wally’s restaurant, Barbie confronts Raquelle. While the two are arguing, Princess Graciella, Crystal, and two assistant fairies show up and kidnap Ken. Carrie and Taylor sprout their wings and attempt to stop the Princess from taking Ken, but the portal to Gloss Angeles closes before they can enter it. The stylists attempt to dissuade Raquelle and Barbie of the fact that they just saw fairies, but admit their existence. Meanwhile in Gloss Angeles, Ken and the Princess arrive in the royal palace, where they meet Zane, Graciella’s boyfriend. Zane is outraged, at Graciella's new love interest challenges Ken to three duels.
Barbie, Raquelle and the fairies go to a clothing store, where they enter the Flyway (a fairy method of transport), teleporting to the top of the Eiffel Tower in Paris. The fairies reveal that Lilianna Roxelle, a fashion critic from the previous movie, is the oldest and wisest fairy living on Earth. They arrive at Lilianna’s house, Lilianna Roxelle,says them that Princess Graciella is acting under a potion love.
Lilliana gave to Barbie, a potion, for Princess Graciella can get to be a normal princess and do not keep acting under a love potion,them arrived to Gloss Angeles, crossing the Palace aboard ponies,Graciella Princess realizes that they are Taylor and Carrie then she sends Raquelle and Barbie inside a cage locked ,the cage is invincible to pride of a fairy passionate, but after talking Barbie and Raquelle and Apologize,they realizes that cage's bars begin to breaking, suddenly have real wings on their backs and remember a phrase "forgiveness makes you fly".
Graciella tells Barbie and Raquelle that their wings will disappear when they go back to the human world, and then reappear when they return to Gloss Angeles. But Raquelle did not promise Graciella that she'll keep Gloss Angeles and faries existence a secret. Thus, the fairies blow a magic sleeping dust on them. The next morning, Barbie wakes up with no recollection of Gloss Angeles or the fairies, thinking it was a dream. However, she and Raquelle are now friends. Carrie and Taylor tell the two that they reconnected with an old friend and are going back to their hometown Gloss Angeles.

