Tom_and_Jerry_Meet_Sherlock_Holmes
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 50
Director: Spike Brandt
Cast: Michael York,Malcolm McDowell,John Rhys-Davies,Grey DeLisle,Jeff Bergman,Phil LaMarr,Greg Ellis,Jess Harnell,Richard McGonagle,Kath Soucie,
Content: An all-star cast including Malcolm McDowell, Michael York and John Rhys-Davies voices this animated direct-to-video movie, which brings back two of television's most beloved characters: Tom the Cat and Jerry the Mouse. The story takes place in London, as various jewel heists baffle Scotland Yard, and a beautiful singer named Red gets framed as the culprit. A situation of this magnitude calls for drastic action, and soon the legendary Sherlock Homes hits the beat, with Dr. Watson and Tom and Jerry in tow. But the case grows even more challenging when Tom and Jerry resort to their old crazy tricks and games with one another. Favorite supporting characters from the original Tom and Jerry series also turn up, including Droopy, Butch and Tuffy. 
Wiki info: 
Tom and Jerry Meet Sherlock Holmes is a 2010 animated direct-to-video film starring Tom and Jerry produced by Warner Bros. Animation. It is the first Tom and Jerry direct-to-video film to be produced without any of its original creators, William Hanna and Joseph Barbera. Since its release, it has also aired on Cartoon Network as part of their regular rotation of Tom and Jerry cartoons. The film is also known as Tom e Jerry e Sherlock Holmes (Portugal) and Tom e Jerry: Uma Aventura com Sherlock Holmes (Brazil).
In the city of London, a crook is stealing jewels around the Scotland Yard, and Red, a beautiful singer, is being framed for this crime. Tom and Jerry, as assistants, must help Sherlock Holmes look for clues and track down the real thief to solve this case.
In London, a robbery takes place and three cats steal a pink diamond. Three Constables spot them and give chase, but the cats escape to the rooftops and glide off into the night. The next day Dr. Watson rushes to 221B in Baker Street and informs his colleague Sherlock Holmes of the robbery. Holmes calls Jerry Mouse to bring him a copy of the times. Jerry heads out to buy it, bumping into Tom Cat on the way, who has something for Holmes. Jerry sends a pile of bricks on Tom and Tom gives chase. Jerry returns to Holmes' flat and hands him the paper. For the night, Holmes and Watson decide to go to an opera and see a lady named Red. Holmes is told that she is being blackmailed and Holmes suggests the real perpetrator might be...Professor Moriarty.
At Scotland Yard, Spike and Tyke are assigned to guard the Star of Punjab. Spike begins to teach Tyke how to be a good dog guard, but the three cats steal the diamond while their not looking. The three cats then step on a small button and retreat. They climb out through a hole that leads to the tunnel and escape before Holmes, Tom and Jerry can arrive. Upon arriving, Jerry tricks Tom into stepping into a broken board and the trio check the tunnel. Finding sawdust, they retreat once hearing Spike sounding the alarm. Holmes and Watson leave to find the shop from where the button came from, while Tom and Jerry are left to take Red to Holmes' flat.
The Police believe Red is behind the crimes and offer a reward for the one who finds her. Butch and Droopy move in to take the reward and race to see who gets it. Butch then bumps into Tom, Jerry and Red. They begin a tiring chase and Tom drops a lantern on Butch's head. They run to the church and they are let in by Jerry's brother Tuffy. Tuffy and Red escape but Tom and Jerry hide in the piano. Droopy and Butch play a song and send Tom and Jerry flying.
Tom catches his back in a pitchfork and Jerry informs Tuffy and Red that the cats are inside. Red distracts the cats while Tom guides Jerry and Tuffy to the cats, getting punched in the face on the way by a customer (for not bringing his drink). Although, the cats escape in time and kidnap Jerry. Tom follows them and rescues Jerry, accept for the diamond. They are sent flying again, Jerry lands to safety, but Tom lands on a pitchfork. The trio follow the cats to a graveyard and find the diamond. However, a hooded figure gets before them but Jerry secretly steals the key. Red decides to go to her friends place, who is a professor.
Red is brought in by the professor but accidentally bashes Tom in the face with the door, leaving him, Jerry and Tuffy locked outside. They then see Butch and Droopy coming their way and hide in a cabin. Tom catches his bum on a pitchfork again and Jerry is forced to cover his screams. They find the hooded figure's horse and discover that the thief is in the house, also that Red is in danger! They use the key they got to sneak inside and they find a machine containing the diamonds. Tuffy catches the diamond but slips don the chimney. Tom and Jerry stumble after him but find that Red is tied up. The professor captures the trio and reveals himself as Moriarty and reveals his plans to steal The Crown Jewels. By using the diamonds, the eclipse will cover the sun ad the diamond will fire and ricochet of the mirrors and break a hole into the tower.
Moriarty then makes his way to the Tower of London with Red. Spike and Tyke are then left to guard the Crown Jewels but the wall crushes Spike and the cats steal the Jewels. However, Tom knocks out one cat and tricks him into firing the machine on them setting them free. They use the cat's wings to fly to the Tower but Moriarty escapes with the Jewels. Tom then crashes into the carriage and they free Red. Jerry frees the horse and spots Holmes and Watson making their way to Moriarty (who earlier had been deduced by Holmes that Moriarty would steal them. Butch fails to catch the cats and Droopy sends them into the Tower, where they are beaten up by Spike.
Moriarty activates his horseless carriage and he and Holmes fight atop the carriage. Tom accidentally brakes the break and the carriage steers off an unfinished bridge. Red, Tom, Jerry and Tuffy make it back to the bridge but believe Holmes to be dead. However, Watson arrives and finds Holmes clinging to an edge with the Jewels. Moriarty and the three cats are arrested but Droopy gets the reward instead of Butch.
At the church, Red marries the wolf and they start howling and run off. While Holmes and Watson watch them run off, Jerry then secretly sends Tom's tail on fire and Tom gives chase to Jerry. It is then revealed that Droopy also does weddings and smiles at the camera.

