Animals_United
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 0
Director: Reinhard Klooss
Cast: Ralf Schmitz,Thomas Fritsch,Bastian Pastewka,Bianca Krahl,Margot Rothweiler,Peter Gröger,Constantin von Jascheroff,Nicola Devico Mamone,Christoph Maria Herbst,Oliver Kalkofe,Frank Schaff,Tilo Schmitz,Santiago Ziesmer,
Content: When the African savannah runs dry and water becomes a precious commodity, a courageous meerkat and a laid back lion prepare to go the distance in order to avoid dying of thirst. In seasons past, a single mountain canyon provided enough water for all the creatures in the savannah. But this year, not a drop has fallen. Buffalos and rhinos stand guard over the only watering hole for miles, and if the creatures don't act fast, they will surely perish. Desperate, Billy the meerkat and Socrates the lion set out to find sustenance. Upon crossing paths with a rooster named Charles, the pair learns of a place in the Okavango Delta where the water still flows. But by the time Charles leads them there, the humans have already staked their claim on the small reserve. Meanwhile, local entrepreneur Smith has constructed a dam in order to the precious divert water to his luxury hotel. When Billy and Socrates learn that the hotel is hosting a conference on natural preservation, they call in all of their animal friends in order to teach the thoughtless politicians a thing or two about sharing the land. 
Wiki info: 
Animals United (German: Konferenz der Tiere) is a 2010 German 3D computer-animated comedy-adventure film directed by Reinhard Klooss and Holger Tappe, starring Ralf Schmitz and Thomas Fritsch as a meerkat called Billy and a lion called Socrates in the African Okavango Delta who go on a quest to discover why their river has unexpectedly dried up. It is based on the 1949 book with the same title by Erich Kästner. The screenplay for the film was written by Oliver Huzly and Reinhard Kloos and the soundtrack was composed by David Newman. An English-language dub stars James Cordon and Stephen Fry.
The film is set in Africa's Okavango Delta, and the main characters are a meerkat named Billy and a lion named Socrates. The annual flood has failed to arrive in the Delta, water has become scarce and the native animals fiercely fight over it. Billy and Socrates set out to find more water, and during their quest they meet a rag-tag group of animals from across the world: a polar bear, a kangaroo, a Tasmanian devil, a pair of Galápagos tortoises and a French Rooster, all of whom have had their lives ruined by humans in some way and have travelled to Africa. The animals soon discover the reason for the lack of water in the Delta: a dam has been constructed to supply energy for a luxury resort. Humans kidnap Socrates and hold him captive in the resort, so Billy leads the animals in a plan to free Socrates and break the dam to bring water back to the Delta.

