Toy_Story_3
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 103
Director: Lee Unkrich
Cast: Tom Hanks,Tim Allen,Joan Cusack,Ned Beatty,John Morris,Don Rickles,Blake Clark,Wallace Shawn,John Ratzenberger,Estelle Harris,Michael Keaton,Jodi Benson,Emily Hahn,Jeff Pidgeon,Timothy Dalton,Kristen Schaal,Jeff Garlin,Bonnie Hunt,Whoopi Goldberg,Jack Angel,Jan Rabson,John Cygan,Laurie Metcalf,Lori Alan,R. Lee Ermey,Teddy Newton,Richard Kind,Bud Luckey,Javier Fernández Peña,Beatrice Miller,Charlie Bright,Amber Kroner,Brianna Maiwand,Erik von Detten,Jack Willis,Lee Unkrich,Bob Peterson,Woody Smith,Frank Welker,
Content: Pixar returns to their first success with Toy Story 3. The movie begins with Andy leaving for college and donating his beloved toys -- including Woody (Tom Hanks) and Buzz (Tim Allen) -- to a daycare. While the crew meets new friends, including Ken (Michael Keaton), they soon grow to hate their new surroundings and plan an escape. The film was directed by Lee Unkrich from a script co-authored by Little Miss Sunshine scribe Michael Arndt. 
Wiki info: 
Toy Story 3 is a 2010 3D computer animated comedy drama film, and the third installment in the Toy Story series. It was produced by Pixar Animation Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures. Directed by Lee Unkrich, the film was released worldwide from June through October in Disney Digital 3-D, RealD, and IMAX 3D. Toy Story 3 was also the first film to be released theatrically with Dolby Surround 7.1 sound.
The plot focuses on the toys Woody, Buzz Lightyear, and their friends dealing with an uncertain future as their owner, Andy, prepares to leave for college. Actors Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Joan Cusack, Don Rickles, Estelle Harris, John Ratzenberger, Wallace Shawn, Jeff Pidgeon, Jodi Benson, R. Lee Ermey, John Morris, and Laurie Metcalf reprised their voice-over roles from the previous films. Jim Varney, who played Slinky Dog in the first two films, and Joe Ranft, who portrayed Lenny and Wheezy, both died before production began on Toy Story 3. The role of Slinky Dog was taken over by Blake Clark (a friend of Varney), while Ranft's characters and various others were written out of the story. New characters include performances by Ned Beatty, Timothy Dalton, Kristen Schaal, Bonnie Hunt, Whoopi Goldberg, Jeff Garlin, Richard Kind, and Michael Keaton.
The feature broke Shrek the Third's record as the biggest opening day North American gross for an animated film unadjusted for inflation, and a big opening with an unadjusted gross of $110,307,189. It is also the highest-grossing opening weekend for a Pixar film, as well as the highest-grossing opening weekend for a film to have opened in the month of June. This is the highest-grossing film of 2010, both in the United States and Canada, and worldwide. In early August, it became Pixar's highest-grossing film at the North American box office (surpassing Finding Nemo), and the highest-grossing animated film of all time worldwide (surpassing Shrek 2); later that month, Toy Story 3 became the first ever animated film in history to make over $1&#160;billion worldwide. It is currently the 10th-highest-grossing film of all time.
Toy Story 3 was nominated for five Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Sound Editing. It was the third animated film (after Beauty and the Beast and Up) to be nominated for Academy Award for Best Picture. It won the awards for Best Animated Feature and Best Original Song.
Andy (John Morris), now nearly 18 years old, is leaving for college, and his toys feel like they have been abandoned as they have not been played with for years. Andy decides to take Woody (Tom Hanks) with him to college and puts Buzz Lightyear (Tim Allen) and the rest of the toys in a trash bag for storage in the attic. However, the toys are accidentally thrown out when Andy's mother (Laurie Metcalf) finds the bag and puts it out on the curb, causing the toys to think that they are no longer wanted. They escape and decide to climb in a donation box for Sunnyside Daycare. Woody, the only toy who saw what actually happened, follows the other toys and tries to explain that they were thrown out by mistake, but they refuse to believe him.
Andy's toys are welcomed by the many toys at Sunnyside and given a tour of the seemingly perfect play-setting by Lots-O'-Huggin' Bear (simply known as Lotso) (Ned Beatty), the bear who smells of strawberries, Big Baby (Woody Smith), and Ken (Michael Keaton), whom Barbie (Jodi Benson) falls in love with. All of the toys love their new home, leaving a steadfast Woody alone in an attempt to return to Andy. Woody's escape attempt falls short and he is found outside by Bonnie (Emily Hahn), an imaginative and playful little girl. She takes him home and plays with him along with her other toys, who are well-treated, happy, and readily welcome Woody. At the daycare, Andy's toys are getting played with very roughly by rambunctious younger toddlers.
Buzz goes to ask Lotso to transport him and the other toys to a better room, only to be caught by Lotso's henchmen and restored back to his original space ranger persona. At the same time, Andy's toys realize that Woody was right about Andy all along when Mrs. Potato Head sees Andy searching for them through her missing eye, which was left behind in Andy's room. Before they could leave, they are imprisoned by Lotso, his gang and the reset Buzz. Back at Bonnie's, Woody learns from one of the toys, Chuckles the Clown (Bud Luckey), that Lotso was once a good toy and had an owner named Daisy who also owned Chuckles the Clown and Big Baby. One day, Daisy left them behind on a picnic. The three eventually find their way back to Daisy's house, only to find that she replaced Lotso with an identical teddy bear. When he found Sunnyside, he and Big Baby took it over and ran it like a prison.
The following morning, Woody returns to Sunnyside through Bonnie's backpack and, after a touching apology, reunites with his friends. That night, the toys execute a daring escape plan, and in the process they accidentally reset Buzz into a delusional Spanish mode, in which his memory remains wiped but he becomes flamboyantly chivalrous; despite this, Buzz allies himself with Woody and immediately falls in love with Jessie (Joan Cusack). The toys reach a dumpster, but are caught by Lotso and his gang. As a garbage truck approaches, Woody reveals what he learned about Lotso, which revolts the bear to reveal that he only now believes that toys are meant to be thrown away; an enraged Big Baby throws Lotso into the dumpster. Seeking revenge, Lotso pulls Woody into the dumpster just as the truck collects the trash. Woody's friends fall into the back of the truck trying to rescue him and a falling television hits Buzz when he tries to save Jessie, returning him to his normal self. The toys find themselves at the dump and eventually wind up on a conveyor belt leading to a giant incinerator. Woody and Buzz then help Lotso—whom they saved earlier—reach an emergency stop button, only to have Lotso leave them behind. Believing the end is near, the toys join hands and accept their fate, but are soon rescued by the Aliens (Jeff Pidgeon) operating a large industrial claw. Mr. Potato Head finally accepts them as his children. Lotso makes his way outside, but a passing garbage truck driver finds him and, recognizing he had the same toy as a kid, straps him to the radiator grill of his truck. Meanwhile, Woody and his friends board another garbage truck driven by an adult Sid Phillips (Erik von Detten) back to Andy's house.
In Andy's room, Woody climbs back into the box with Andy's college supplies while the other toys ready themselves for the attic. Woody suddenly has an idea and leaves a note for Andy on the toys' box. Andy, thinking the note is from his mother, takes them to Bonnie's house and introduces her to his old toys. Bonnie recognizes Woody who, to Andy's surprise, is lying at the bottom of the box. Though initially reluctant, Andy happily passes him on to Bonnie, and then spends some time playing with her and the toys before leaving. The film ends with Woody and his friends watching Andy's departure and beginning their new lives with Bonnie.
During the credits, Woody and the other toys learn through notes passed on in Bonnie's backpack that Barbie, Ken and Big Baby have improved the lives of the toys (now including an Emperor Zurg action figure) at Sunnyside. While the toys now enjoy their new lives as Bonnie's toys, Buzz and Jessie, now a couple, then dance a paso doble to a Spanish version of "You've Got a Friend in Me."

