The_Little_Engine_That_Could
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 82
Director: Elliot M. Bour
Cast: Little Engine (Alyson Stoner) - A little steam shunter who dreams of being a Dream Hauler. Becomes close friends with Richard. At first she is unsure about taking the birthday train over the mountain, but with encouragement from Richard and the toys, and remembering Rusty's advice, Little Engine manages to bring the train over the mountain to the real world all by herself. Her wheel arrangement is 4-2-0 and her eyes are on the sides of her cab and mouth on her smokebox. She seems to be based upon the little blue engine from the book.,Tower (Whoopi Goldberg) - A control tower who is in charge of everyone in the train yard. Tries to maintain order.,Caboose (Patrick Warburton) - A red caboose who is coupled by the birthday train. Seems to be pessimistic, and isn't too fond of flying.,Red Engine (35) (Jeff Bennett) - The Dream Hauler engine who was supposed to take the birthday train through the mountain to the real world. He is red and can sometimes have accidents. his wheel arrangement is 2-6-0. He seems to be based upon the happy red locomotive on the toy train from the book.,Big Locomotive (Mocean Melvin) - A silver streamlined diesel Dream Hauler with a purpleorange stripe who's missing a tooth. He is one of the Dream Haulers who was sent to help dig out the tunnel after it collapses.,Rusty (Jim Cummings) - A senior Dream Hauler who offers advice to Little Engine. After accidentally bringing Richard to Dreamland, Rusty is demoted to track cleaner. Explains that before the Dream Tunnel was made, Dream Haulers had to go over the mountain. But because it was too dangerous, they decided to make the tunnel. his wheel arrangement is a 2-8-0. He seems to be based upon the elderly engine from the book.,Freight Train (Rodney Saulsberry) - A green and orange Dream Hauler engine who hauls heavy freight trains. One of many who was sent to help dig out the tunnel. Calls Little Engine "Peanut Roaster". his wheel arrangement is a 2-4-2 He seems to be based upon the freight engine from the book.,Shiny Passenger Train (Brenda Song) - A yellow passenger engine who is very full of herself, she is one of many who was sent to help dig out the tunnel. her wheel arrangement is a 4-8-0. She seems to be based upon the Shiny New Engine from the book.,Girl Train (Chelsea Erinne Evered) - A pink and white diesel engine who gives Rusty a broom-plow in place of his cowcatcher, and gives his cowcatcher back at the end of the film.,Evening Express (Jim Cummings) - A white streamlined diesel who pulls a fast express.,Nightmare Train (Ray Porter) - A black scary steam engine who wanted to deliver scary creepy trains. Tricks Little Engine into giving him the toys and Richard. Little Engine manages to outwit him by taking a wrong track.,Richard (Dominic Scott Kay) - A boy who wanders into Dreamland when Rusty accidentally falls,Marcus (Khamani Griffin) - Richard's friend at school.,Scott and Stretch (Michael Rodrigo and Luke Williams) - A pair of bullies who antagonize Richard in the real world.,Beverly (Jamie Lee Curtis) - A female clown toy who serves,Major (Charlie Schlatter) - A toy soldier who sometimes finishes his sentences with "sir". Gives up his badge to help bandage a leak in Little Engine's water tank. Has a crush on Jillian.,Ace - A small toy plane who doesn't speak. When the toys are taken by the Nightmare Train, Ace manages to escape and warn Little Engine.,Jillian (Jodi Benson) - A ballerina doll who dances when she is happy. Has a crush on Major.,Lou and Bud (Corbin Bleu and Rodney Saulsberry) - A pair of stuffed giraffe toys. Lou has spots while Bug has yellow and orange squares. Lou is the more talkative one while Bud doesn't speak until near the end of the film.,Hudson (Jeff Bennett) - A green and white sock monkey with a British accent. Hopes to be fun for his child. Richard noted that he once had a sock monkey.,
Content: "I think I can, I think I can" The timeless story comes to life in this all-new, feature-length film filled with fun and adventure! When Little Engine (Alyson Stoner, Cheaper by the Dozen) must leave Dreamland to deliver toys into the real world, she sets her fears aside and learns that with a little determination and courage, anything is possible. Featuring an all-star cast, including Whoopi Goldberg (The View), Jamie Lee Curtis (Freaky Friday), Corbin Bleu (High School Musical) and Brenda Song (The Suite Life of Zack and Cody), this "fun family film" (Francine Brokaw, Los Angeles Family Magazine) is one you'll enjoy again and again.Theatrical Feature Running Time: 82&nbsp;mins
Wiki info: 
The Little Engine That Could is a 2011 CGI film based on the story by Watty Piper. The film was released direct to DVD in the United States on March 22, 2011.

