ParaNorman
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 93
Director: Chris Butler
Cast: Kodi Smit-McPhee,Jodelle Micah Ferland,Tucker Albrizzi,Anna Kendrick,Casey Affleck,Christopher Mintz-Plasse,Leslie Mann,Jeff Garlin,Elaine Stritch,Bernard Hill,John Goodman,Tempestt Bledsoe,Hannah Noyes,Ariel Winter,Bridget Hoffman,Scott Menville,David Cowgill,Wendy Hoffman,Alex Borstein,Jeremy Shada,Emily Hahn,Kirk Baily, Cam Clarke, Lara Cody, Eddie Frierson, Rif Hutton, Edie Mirman, and David Zyler,
Content: Writerdirector Chris Butler puts his experience working on Coraline and Tim Burton's The Corpse Bride to good use in this charmingly morbid tale of an eccentric young hero facing supernatural forces that would make most grown-ups cower in fear. Eleven-year-old Norman Babcock (voice of Kodi Smit-McPhee) is a young misfit with a remarkable gift: He sees dead people. Although Norman's clairvoyance allows him the unique opportunity to enjoy the company of his beloved grandmother (Elaine Stritch) long after she has ceased to be, it also drives his frustrated father Perry (Jeff Garlin) and popularity-obsessed sister Courtney (Anna Kendrick) up the wall at home and makes him the target of dim-witted bully Alvin (Christopher Mintz-Plasse) at school. His only friend is portly Neil (Tucker Albrizzi), who isn't exactly a beacon of coolness. When Norman's deceased uncle Prenderghast (John Goodman), a local pariah, warns the young boy that he must save their small town of Blithe Hollow from a witch's curse that has plagued the area for centuries, the young creature-feature addict isn't entirely sure how to respond -- that is, until the sky turns red, the clouds start to swirl, and the dead rise up from their graves. Now, as a terrified mob takes to the streets with torches in hand, it's up to Norman, Courtney, Alvin, Neil, and Neil's older brother Mitch (Casey Affleck) to put things right, even if it means confronting the 300-year-old curse that has haunted Blithe Hollow ever since the notorious witch hunts of the 18th century. 
Wiki info: 
ParaNorman is a 2012 American 3D stop-motion animated comedy horror film produced by Laika, distributed by Focus Features and was released on August 17, 2012. The voice cast includes Casey Affleck, Tempestt Bledsoe, Jeff Garlin, John Goodman, Bernard Hill, Anna Kendrick, Leslie Mann, Christopher Mintz-Plasse, Kodi Smit-McPhee, Jodelle Ferland, Elaine Stritch, and Tucker Albrizzi. It is the first stop-motion film to use a 3D color printer to create character faces, and only the second stop motion film to be shot in 3D.
The film received a largely positive critical response, while it was a modest box office success, earning $107 million against its budget of $60 million. The film received nominations for the 2012 Academy Award for Best Animated Feature and BAFTA Award for Best Animated Film.
In the small New England town of Blithe Hollow, Massachusetts, a boy named Norman Babcock (Kodi Smit-McPhee) is able to speak with the dead, including his late grandmother (Elaine Stritch) and various ghosts in town. Unfortunately, almost no one among the living believes his ability is genuine and he is isolated emotionally from his family while being ridiculed and bullied by most of his peers for his seemingly strange abilities.
However, Norman makes a friend with Neil Downe (Tucker Albrizzi), an accepting overweight boy who is bullied himself and finds Norman's earnest admission as a medium an intriguing part of a kindred spirit. During rehearsal of a school play commemorating the town's witch execution of three centuries ago, Norman has a harrowing vision of the town's past and being pursued as a witch by the town's citizenry. Afterward, the boys are confronted by Norman's estranged and seemingly deranged uncle Mr. Prenderghast (John Goodman) who tells his nephew that the vision is a sign that he soon must take up his regular ritual to protect the town. Soon after this encounter, Prenderghast collapses in his home, and dies of natural causes.
Norman refuses to take him seriously, but soon has another vision during the school drama, creating a public spectacle of himself which leads to his embarrassed father (Jeff Garlin) unjustly grounding him, before hurting his feelings by muttering that he never asked for his son to have this supposed awful gift. His mother (Leslie Mann) tells him that his stern manner is because he is afraid for him, just as ominous storm clouds begin to brew. The next day, Norman is confronted by the ghost of the recently deceased Prenderghast, who tells him that the ritual must be performed with a certain book before sundown that day, before departing for the afterlife. After some consideration and advice from his grandmother's ghost, Norman sets off to Prenderghast's residence to retrieve the book. Believing that Neil would not truly understand his situation, he drives him away. He arrives at the graves of the town's ancestorsfounders, including Judge Hopkins, who were supposedly cursed by the witch they condemned, but finds the book is merely a series of fairy tales.
Before Norman can ponder the situation, Alvin (Christopher Mintz-Plasse), a bully who overheard Norman's encounter in the restroom, intrudes and interferes with the reading until after sundown. With that, a ghostly storm resembling the witch appears in the air while the cursed dead arise and pursue the boys until they meet Norman's sister, Courtney (Anna Kendrick), Neil and his older brother, Mitch (Casey Affleck), who have come to retrieve Norman. Together, the kids are relentlessly pursued by the zombies into town, but Norman manages to contact a classmate named Salma (Hannah Noyes) for help, who tells them to access the Town Hall's archives for the location of the witch's unmarked grave.
As the kids make their way to the Town Hall, the zombies eventually lose them and find themselves confused by modern society and then are beset by the citizenry, who attack them en masse. During the riot, the kids break into the archives but cannot find any information they need. As the mob moves to attack Town Hall, Norman (in frustration) temporarily drives away his companions only for them to be trapped by the mob. However, the Witch storm appears and Norman climbs the Hall's tower to desperately attempt to read the book to see what he could do, but the witch strikes it with lightning and causes him to fall back down into the archives.
Unconscious, Norman has a dream where he learns that the witch was actually Agatha Prenderghast (Jodelle Micah Ferland), an innocent little girl of his age who was also a medium, unjustly condemned by the town's superstitious and frightened elite, who were then cursed to reawaken as the undead by Agatha as she was taken for execution. After awakening, Norman encounters the zombies and realizes that all they wanted was to speak with him to ensure he would take up the ritual to minimize the harm of the terrible mistake they made with Agatha. However, Norman decides that this gesture is not enough and resolves to find Agatha's spirit to arrive at a permanent solution.
Norman attempts to help the zombies slip away to have them guide him to Agatha's grave, but are cornered by the mob. However, Courtney, who has come to realize her brother's true abilities, heroism and task, confronts the crowd and convinces them to back off. As the witch storm rages ever more destructively, Judge Hopkins (Bernard Hill) guides Norman's family to the grave in a forest. Before the grave is reached, Agatha's magic separates Norman from the others and he must reach the grave on his own to convince Agatha to lift the curse.
Norman finds the grave, and soon confronted by the vengeful spirit of Agatha, interacting with her in the spirit dimension. She asks him to leave her be, but Norman resolutely holds his ground, telling her that he understands how she feels as an outcast. As she struggles to drive him away, Norman endures her assault and eventually convinces her that, despite her legitimate grievance, her thirst for vengeance is accomplishing nothing but inflicting more pain and persuades her to stop. Norman tries to convince her that even in the darkest times, there must have been someone who was kind to her. Focusing only on the tragedies and forgetting the good things in her life is what reduced her to a malevolent force devoid of her true identity.
Eventually, the girl, nicknamed Aggie, calms down at Norman's eloquence, recalling her true personality and happy memories with her mother. She is able to find a measure of peace, knowing that she is not alone and one person in the town understands her, allowing her to let go and move on to the afterlife. At that resolution, the storm dissipates, and she and the zombies all peacefully fade away. As day breaks, the town cleans up and regards Norman as a hero even when the outside media tries to explain the disturbance as merely a powerful storm. Norman, realizing that he, too, should stop focusing on his memories of being ostracized and pushing others away, accepts Neil's companionship. At the end, Norman watches a horror film with the ghost of his Grandmother, and his family eagerly joins him.

