Hotel_Transylvania
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 91
Director: Genndy Tartakovsky
Cast: 
Content: Samurai Jack's Genndy Tartakovsky directed this animated tale concerning a hotel where monsters such as Dracula (voice of Adam Sandler), the Invisible Man (David Spade), Frankenstein (Kevin James), and his bride (Fran Drescher), along with a host of others, head to relax from a world full of humans. When a young man (Andy Samberg) stumbles onto the resort and falls for Drac's teenage daughter Mavis (Selena Gomez), comedy high jinks ensue. Cee Lo Green, Steve Buscemi, and Molly Shannon also lend their voices. 
Wiki info: 
Hotel Transylvania is a 2012 American 3D computer-animated comedy film produced by Sony Pictures Animation and distributed by Columbia Pictures. It was directed by Genndy Tartakovsky, the creator of Samurai Jack, Dexter's Laboratory, and Sym-Bionic Titan, and produced by Michelle Murdocca. The film features the voices of Adam Sandler, Andy Samberg, Selena Gomez, Kevin James, Fran Drescher, Steve Buscemi, Molly Shannon, David Spade and Cee Lo Green.
The film tells a story of Dracula, the owner of Hotel Transylvania, where the world's monsters can take a rest from human civilization. Dracula invites some of the most famous monsters, including Frankenstein's monster, Mummy, a Werewolf family, and the Invisible Man, to celebrate the 118th birthday of his daughter Mavis. When the hotel is unexpectedly visited by an ordinary 21-year-old traveler named Jonathan, Dracula must protect Mavis from falling in love with him before it is too late.
Released on September 28, 2012, the film was met with mixed critical reception, while the general population received it very favorably. Despite mixed reviews, Hotel Transylvania set a new record for the highest-grossing September opening weekend ever, earning a total of $346 million on a budget of $85 million. The film was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Animated Feature Film. A sequel, titled Hotel Transylvania 2, is scheduled to be released in theaters on September 25, 2015.
In the aftermath of the death of his wife Martha (Jackie Sandler), Count Dracula (Adam Sandler) designs and builds a massive five-star hotel in which to raise his daughter Mavis (Selena Gomez). Famous monsters such as Frank (Kevin James) and his wife Eunice (Fran Drescher), Wayne and Wanda Werewolf (Steve Buscemi and Molly Shannon) and their massive immediate family, Griffin the Invisible Man (David Spade), and Murray the Mummy (Cee Lo Green) often come to stay at the hotel which is completely human free and safe for monsters.
On her 118th birthday, Dracula allows his daughter to leave the castle in order to explore the human world, but he sets up an elaborate plan using his zombie bellhops disguised as humans to make them seem intimidating and frighten her home. The plan works, but the zombies inadvertently lure a human; 21-year-old Jonathan (Andy Samberg) to the hotel. Dracula frantically disguises him as a Flesh Golem and passes him off as Johnnystein, a distant cousin of Frank's right arm. Johnny soon encounters Mavis and the two 'Zing'; a form of magical attraction. Unable to get Johnny out of the hotel without notice, Drac quickly improvises that Johnny is a party planner, brought in to bring a fresher approach to his own traditional and boring parties. Johnny quickly becomes a hit to the other monsters, especially Mavis, and even begins to gain Dracula's respect. He tells Johnny the reason he hate humans was for the death of his wife at the hands of an angry mob shortly after Mavis was born, and is surprised at his understanding and knowledge of the lore.
Johnny attempts to leave after his confession, but is brought back by Mavis. After showing her the beauty of a sunrise, she is re-inspired to give humans another chance. Meanwhile, Quasimodo (John Lovitz) learns that Johnny is a human and kidnaps him in order to cook him but Dracula intervenes and magically freezes Quasimodo to keep him from telling anyone that he is a human. The party is a great success, but when Mavis kisses Johnny, Dracula is sent over the edge and in his outburst confesses to deceiving Mavis with the town. Quasimodo, still frozen, bursts in and The Fly (Chris Parnell) translates his frozen language that reveals Johnny's humanity, but Mavis is undeterred by her attraction and wants to be with Johnny, even though he is human. But Johnny rejects her out of respect for her father and leaves the hotel.
Discovering that Mavis and Johnny shared a Zing, Dracula manages to convince Frank, Wayne, Griffin, and Murray (who are now trying to leave the hotel) to help him find Johnny and reunite them and they learn he is bound on a flight out of Transylvania soon. They head to the airport and encounter a Monster Festival along the way, instead of being frightened by the real monsters appearing, they instead help Dracula by providing him shelter from the sunlight so he can get to the airport quickly only to see Johnny's plane taking off. He takes the risk and gives chase, burning in the sunlight. After getting Johnny's attention, Dracula makes his way to the front of the plane, using his mind-controlling power to control the pilot (Brian Stack) to help him apologize for his actions. Johnny accepts Dracula's apology and Dracula manipulates the pilot to return to the Transylvanian airport for a refuel and Dracula returns Johnny to Mavis, who confesses that their Zing was mutual and the two kiss, making Dracula realize his little girl is all grown up and can make her own decisions.
The film ends with Dracula and his friends being shown in traditional animation (in the style of Genndy Tartakovsky's cartoons) during the credits, as well as a few paintings of Johnny and Mavis on their travels together.

