Beauty_and_the_Beast
Released Year: 1991
Running time: 0
Director: Kirk Wise
Cast: 
Content: Beauty and the Beast is widely considered the best animated Disney feature of the studio's 1980s1990s renewal of the form. Based on the classic French fairy tale, it tells the story of Belle (voiced by Paige O'Hara), an intelligent young woman scorned by her townspeople for being a bookworm, weary of fighting off the advances of the arrogant Gaston (Richard White), and dreaming of escape. When her father gets lost in the woods and captured by the forbidding Beast (Robby Benson), a once-handsome prince turned into a monster by a witch, Belle goes off to rescue him. Taken with her, the Beast agrees to release Belle's father if she agrees to stay with him forever. Initially repulsed, Belle soon finds much to appreciate in the Beast's hidden, tender nature. The Beast's servants -- a clock (David Ogden Stiers), a teapot (Angela Lansbury), and a candlestick (Jerry Orbach) -- see Belle as their salvation: if the Beast and a woman fall in love before his 21st birthday, he will be free from the curse. The songs are first-class, the tale is told with sincerity but not sentimentality, and the characters of Belle and the Beast, complex individuals who defy stereotyping and change over the course of the story, are more three-dimensional than in most live-action movies. The eye-popping animation is beautifully rendered, and Beauty and the Beast certainly deserves its place amongst Disney's animated classics. In 2002, a special 89-minute edition of the film was released in IMAX theaters with the addition of a newly animated song, ""Human Again."" 
Wiki info: 
Beauty and the Beast is a 1991 American animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures. The 30th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series and the third film of the Disney Renaissance, Beauty and the Beast is based on the fairy tale La Belle et la Bête by Jeanne-Marie Le Prince de Beaumont. Featuring the voices of Paige O'Hara, Robby Benson, Richard White, Jerry Orbach, David Ogden Stiers, and Angela Lansbury, the film tells the story of a handsome prince who is transformed into a hideous beast as punishment for his selfish actions. To become human again, the Beast must earn the love of a beautiful young woman that he imprisons in his castle, or else remain a beast forever.
Directed by Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise, and produced by Don Hahn, the film was written by Roger Allers, Brenda Chapman, and Chris Sanders, with a screenplay by Linda Woolverton. Originally, the film was to have been by directed by English director Richard Purdum, but he resigned following the studio's decision to turn Beauty and the Beast into a musical. Howard Ashman and Alan Menken wrote the film's songs, while Menken composed its score. Ashman, who also served as executive producer on the film, died of AIDS related complications eight months before the film's release. The film is dedicated to him in his memory.
Beauty and the Beast was released on November 22, 1991 to positive reviews. The film was a significant commercial success during its initial release, and has since then garnered over $424 million in box office earnings. Beauty and the Beast was nominated for several awards, winning the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy. Famously, Beauty and the Beast was the first-ever animated film to be nominated for an Academy Award for Best Picture, remaining the only animated film to hold this honor until 2009 when the Academy expanded the number of nominees and Pixar's Up was nominated. Beauty and the Beast received five additional Academy Award nominations, including Best Original Score, Best Sound, and three separate nominations for Best Original Song. Ultimately, Beauty and the Beast won Best Original Score, and Best Original Song went to its title song. In 2002, Beauty and the Beast was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress for being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant."
In April 1994, Beauty and the Beast became Disney's first animated film to be adapted into a Broadway musical. The success of the film spawned two direct-to-video midquels: Beauty and the Beast: The Enchanted Christmas, released in 1997, and Belle's Magical World, released in 1998. This was followed by a spin-off television series, Sing Me a Story with Belle. An IMAX special edition version of the original film was released in 2002, with a new five-minute musical sequence included. After the success of the 3D re-release of The Lion King, the film returned to theaters in 3D under supervision of John Lasseter on January 13, 2012.
An enchantress disguised as an old beggar woman offers a young prince a rose in exchange for a night's shelter. When he coldly turns her away, she punishes him by transforming him into an ugly beast and turning his servants into household items. She gives him a magic mirror that enables him to view faraway events, along with the rose, which will bloom until his 21st birthday. He must love and be loved in return before the rose's petals have fallen off, or he will remain a beast forever.
Years later, a beautiful young woman named Belle lives in a nearby French village with her father Maurice, an inventor who people believe to be crazy. Belle loves reading and yearns for a life beyond the village. Her beauty and non-conformity attracts attention in the town and she is pursued by many men, but mostly the arrogant local hunter, Gaston. Despite being sought after by single females and considered godlike in perfection by the male population of the town, Belle is uninterested in Gaston.
As Maurice travels to a fair to present his wood-chopping machine, he gets lost on the way and is chased by wolves before stumbling upon the Beast's castle, where he meets the transformed servants Lumière, a candelabra, Cogsworth, a clock, Mrs. Potts, a teapot, and her son Chip, a teacup. The Beast imprisons Maurice, but Belle is led back to the castle by Maurice's horse, Phillipe, and offers to take her father's place, to which the Beast agrees. While Gaston is sulking over his humiliation in the tavern after a failed proposal to Belle, Maurice tells him and the other villagers what happened but they think he has gone insane.
At the castle, the Beast orders Belle to dine with him, but she refuses, and Lumiere disobeys his order not to let her eat. After Cogsworth gives her a tour of the castle, she finds the rose in the forbidden West Wing and the Beast angrily chases her away. Frightened, she tries to flee, but she and her horse are attacked by wolves. After the Beast rescues her, she nurses his wounds, and he begins to develop feelings for her. The Beast grants Belle access to the castle library, which impresses Belle and they become friends, growing closer as they spend more time together. Meanwhile, the spurned Gaston pays the warden of the town's insane asylum to have Maurice committed unless Belle agrees to Gaston's marriage proposal.
Back at the castle Belle and the Beast share a romantic evening together. Belle tells the Beast she misses her father, and he lets her use the magic mirror to see him. When Belle sees him dying in the woods in an attempt to rescue her, the Beast allows her to leave to rescue her father, giving her the mirror to remember him by. As he watches her leave, the Beast admits to Cogsworth that he loves Belle.
Belle finds her father and takes him home. Gaston arrives to carry out his plan, but Belle proves Maurice's sanity by showing them the Beast with the magic mirror. Realizing Belle has feelings for the Beast, Gaston arouses the mob's anger against the Beast, telling them that the Beast is a man-eating monster that must be killed, and leads them to the castle. Gaston confines Belle and Maurice in the basement, but Chip, who had hidden himself in Belle's baggage, uses Maurice's wood-chopper to release them.
The servants scare off the mob, but Gaston sneaks away to hunt down the Beast. The Beast is initially too depressed to fight back, but he regains his will when he sees Belle returning to the castle with Maurice. After winning a heated battle, the Beast spares Gaston's life, giving him a chance to leave the castle and is about to reunite with Belle. However, Gaston, refusing to lose, stabs the Beast from behind, but loses his balance and plummets down to his death.
When the Beast dies, Belle professes her love for him, breaking the spell as the rose's last petal falls. The Beast comes back to life, his human form restored. As he and Belle kiss, the castle and its inhabitants return to their previous states as well. Belle and the prince dance in the ballroom with her father and the humanized servants happily watching.

