Open_Season_3
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 75
Director: Cody Cameron
Cast: Matthew J. Munn,Matthew W. Taylor,Melissa Sturm,Dana Snyder,Karley Scott Collins,Ciara Bravo,Harrison Fahn,André Sogliuzzo,Cody Cameron,Danny Mann,Crispin Glover,Steve Schirripa,Fred Stoller,Sean Mullen,Georgia Engel,Nika Futterman,Michelle Murdocca,
Content: The adventures of everyone's favorite Grizzly Bear continue in this sequel that finds Boog joining the circus after Elliot and the rest of his pals pass on their annual boys-only retreat. When Boog decides to take the trip alone, he happens across a traveling circus and convinces a performing bear to trade places. Boog's fun under the big-top comes to an abrupt end, however, when the circus packs up and prepares to head back to Russia. In order to ensure that their best friend isn't shipped overseas, Elliot, McSquizzy, Mr. Weenie, and the rest of Boog's pals prepare to stage the ultimate break out. Featuring the voices of Crispin Glover, Steve Schirripa, Dana Snyder, and Karley Scott Collins. 
Wiki info: 
Open Season 3 is a 2010 American computer-animated comedy film. It is the third and final installment in the Open Season film series, following Open Season (2006) and Open Season 2 (2008). The film was directed by Cody Cameron, and produced by Sony Pictures Animation and Reel FX Creative Studios. It theatrically premiered in Russia on October 21, 2010, and was released as a direct-to-video in the United States on January 25, 2011.
Most of the previous actors reprised their roles, with the exception of Joel McHale, Mike Epps, Jane Krakowski, Billy Connolly, and Jon Favreau. They are joined by new characters that are voiced by Matthew J. Munn, Melissa Sturm, Dana Snyder, Karley Scott Collins, Ciara Bravo, Harrison Fahn, and Cody Cameron.
Boog plans an annual guys trip to spend time with his male friends. However, Elliot has distanced himself from him since he had started a family. Boog is disappointed since everyone else wants to spend time with their families which makes Boog go on a trip of his own, which leads him to a Russian traveling circus.
While in the circus, Boog meets Doug, a lazy, scruffy grizzly bear who is tired of performing in the circus on the sidelines. He craves recognition as a full-fledged king of the forest, the ruler of wildlife. Doug convinces Boog to switch his life in the forest for Doug's place at the circus. Boog accepts the offer, but the whole thing turns out a scam since all Doug wants to do was escape.
Meanwhile, Boog falls madly in love with Ursa, a female grizzly bear who was born in Russia and can effortlessly walk on a tightrope, juggle and dance. When the couple begin working together, they obtain much more as a harmonious duet than it might seem at first glance. When Boog's pals find out about Boog's disappearance, they, as well as the pets put aside their differences and hatch a rescue mission to save Boog.
Boog's friends arrive at the circus. They want Boog to return home, but he does not want to leave Ursa. Suddenly, Doug arrives and apologizes to Boog for tricking him. While Doug performs the circus acts for the audience, Elliot tells Boog that he can stay at the circus if he wants to. Boog does not want to leave Ursa or Elliot, so he convinces Ursa to go live in the forest with them.
Ursa enjoys life in the forest. The guys finally go on the guys trip and sing Willie Nelson's "On the Road Again." In a post-credits scene, Alistair and Doug are enjoying their tour around the world.

