Despicable_Me
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 95
Director: John Cohen
Cast: Steve Carell,Jason Segel,Russell Brand,Julie Andrews,Will Arnett,Kristen Wiig,Miranda Cosgrove,Dana Gaier,Elsie Fisher,Pierre Coffin,Chris Renaud,Jemaine Clement,Jack McBrayer,Ken Jeong,Danny McBride,Mindy Kaling,Rob Huebel,
Content: A mysterious criminal mastermind has stolen one of the pyramids in Egypt, sparking a fit of jealous envy in evil genius Gru (Steve Carell), who hasn't managed to make headlines since he and his minions swiped the Times Square JumboTron years back. Ever since Gru was a little boy, he dreamed of going to the moon. Now, if Gru can just build a rocket and get his hands on a powerful shrink-ray, he can cement his reputation as the greatest thief who ever lived by stealing the Earth's satellite right out of the sky. But immediately after Gru heists the shrink-ray, the cunning super-nerd Vector (Jason Segel) swoops in and snatches it right out of his hands. Now, in order to claim the moon, Gru must first reacquire the weapon from Vector. Armed with the knowledge that his nemesis has a mean sweet tooth, Gru adopts cookie-selling orphans Margo (Miranda Cosgrove), Agnes (Elsie Fisher), and Edith (Dana Gaier) and commissions a new line of cookie robots from the evil Dr. Nefario (Russell Brand), his personal weapons specialist. But as Gru and his diminutive yellow minions prepare to carry out the biggest heist in history, something strange happens. Gru discovers that the three little girls who have come into his life are much more than simple pawns. They actually seem to care about Gru, and it turns out the scheming evildoer makes a pretty good father. When Gru realizes that his upcoming moon mission clashes with a ballet performance by the girls, he must decide what's more important -- being a present parent or cementing his nefarious reputation once and for all. 
Wiki info: 
Despicable Me is a 2010 American computer-animated 3D comedy film from Universal Pictures and Illumination Entertainment that was released on July 9, 2010 in the United States. The first Illumination Entertainment production, it was directed by Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud, based on an original story by Sergio Pablos.
The film stars the voice of Steve Carell as Gru, a super-villain who adopts three girls (the voices of Miranda Cosgrove, Dana Gaier, and Elsie Fisher) from an orphanage; and the voice of Jason Segel as Vector, a rival of Gru who steals the Great Pyramid of Giza. When Gru learns of Vector's heist, he plans an even greater heist to shrink and steal the Earth's moon.
The film was entirely animated by the French animation studio Mac Guff, which was later acquired by Illumination Entertainment.
The film earned positive reviews from critics, and grossed over $543 million worldwide, against a budget of $69 million. A sequel, Despicable Me 2, is set to be released on July 3, 2013, followed by a spin-off, featuring Gru's Minions as the main characters, on December 19, 2014.
Gru, a super-villain, has his pride injured when an unknown super-villain steals the Great Pyramid of Giza; an action that is described as making "all other villains look lame." Gru decides to do better by shrinking and stealing the moon; an idea based on his childhood dream of being an astronaut, which was always discouraged by his mother, Marlena. The plan is quite expensive and Gru seeks a loan from the Bank of Evil. The Bank's president, Mr. Perkins, is impressed by the plan, but will only provide the money if Gru can obtain a shrink ray first.
Gru and his minions steal a shrink ray from a secret base in Asia but the up-and-coming super-villain, Vector, who was also responsible for the Pyramid theft, immediately steals it from Gru. Gru attempts to break into Vector's fortress to get the shrink ray back, but is defeated by numerous booby traps. However, he notices three orphan girls -- Margo, Edith, and Agnes-- easily walk into the base to sell Vector cookies. Gru, faking his credentials, adopts the girls from Miss Hattie's Home for Girls, planning on using them to infiltrate Vector's base so he can steal the shrink ray back. However, Gru has much difficulty nurturing them properly between their own rambunctiousness, their ballet classes, and his own ineptitude as a parent.
Eventually, Gru and the girls arrive at Vector's fortress and Gru manages to steal the shrink ray. The girls then suggest a day at the local theme park; Gru agrees, believing he can leave the girls there, but he warms up to the girls after they compliment him over destroying a rigged carnival game. Later, Gru contacts Mr. Perkins, stating that he has finally got the shrink ray in his possession, but Perkins rejects him again, stating that the bank would rather see a younger super-villain, such as his son Vector, complete the theft. As Gru mopes about at home, the girls offer the contents of their piggy bank to fund the plan. Gru, inspired, sacrifices parts of his lair to construct the spacecraft. Gru plans to steal the moon when it is nearest the Earth but this ends up being the same day as the girls' ballet recital. Gru becomes conflicted and Dr. Nefario, seeing this as interfering with the plan, arranges for the girls to be returned to the orphanage. Around the same time, Mr. Perkins informs Vector of Gru's possession of the shrink ray and the adoption of the three girls, inciting Vector to take action.
Gru proceeds with his plan to steal the moon, successfully shrinking it to fit in his hand, but is too late to attend the recital. He then receives a note from Vector, who has kidnapped the girls, telling him to give him the moon in exchange for them. After arriving at Vector's lair, Gru eagerly makes the trade, but Vector reneges on the deal, flying off with the girls and the moon, much to Gru's anger. Meanwhile, Dr. Nefario has discovered that the effects of the shrink ray are temporary; the bigger the object is, the faster it will regain its normal size. As the moon starts to expand in Vector's ship, Gru, Dr. Nefario, and the minions pull off a daring mid-air rescue of the girls just as the moon explodes out from Vector's ship and launches itself back into orbit, with Vector forever trapped on it.
Some time later, Gru has readopted the girls and treats them as his daughters and he writes them a bedtime storybook framed around his own experience. The girls perform their own ballet recital for Gru, his mother, Dr. Nefario, and the minions with the movie ending as they all get on stage to dance to "You Should Be Dancing", with Vector dancing from space.

