Gnomes_and_Trolls
Released Year: 2009
Running time: 70
Director: Robert Rhodin
Cast: Greg Berg,Joe Cappelletti,Elizabeth Daily,Kate Higgins,Kym Lane,Lloyd Sherr,André Sogliuzzo,James Arnold Taylor,
Content: A resourceful teenage gnome and a neurotic crow work together to ensure that the creatures of the forest are well fed even when it means clashing with a pair of scheming troll siblings who want all of the food for themselves. Sneak a peek in Junior's tree-house lab, and odds are good you'll find him tinkering with one of his wild inventions. Now, Junior's father wants his son to deliver food to the forest creatures before they hibernate. But greedy trolls Slim and Face have raided the chamber where the gnomes store their food, leaving the other creatures to starve over winter. Perhaps with the help of his winged pal Sneaky, Junior will be able to track down the missing food, and ensure that all of their forest-dwelling friends stay well fed once the snow begins to fall. 
Wiki info: 
Gnomes and Trolls: The Secret Chamber is an 2008 Swedish animated children's fantasy film directed by Robert Rhodin for the Stockholm based studio White Shark. The movie reached the top ten in box office admissions in three markets (Turkey, Sweden and Middle East) while it was only released to DVD in most other markets.
Gnomes and Trolls, an action-adventure comedic fairy tale, marks White Shark Film's first foray into computer animation. Junior, a teenage gnome, wants nothing more than to invent gizmos and gadgets in his tree-house laboratory. But Junior's old school father, Jalle, the head gnome of the forest, would prefer his son follow in his footsteps and one day be in charge of his own forest. In spite of their differences, on the eve of the first winter storm Junior helps Jalle distribute food rations to the soon-to-be-hibernating animals. Then disaster strikes.
Perpetually bickering troll brothers Face and Slim execute their evil father Fassa's carefully plotted plan to steal the food from the gnome secret food chamber. After Jalle is accidentally injured, Junior and his best friend Sneaky, a paranoid neurotic crow, embark on a heroic journey to the depths of troll cave to retrieve the stolen food. Junior and Sneaky's adventure takes them across vast landscapes and into encounters with bizarre animals.
Along the way, Junior learns that it is possible to merge his passion for inventing with his newfound impetus to defend the forest. As Sneaky taps into an innate bravery he never knew he had, Slim battles an identity crisis, and Junior's mother Svea shatters the preconceived notions of what it means to be a gnome wife.

