Rio
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 96
Director: Carlos Saldanha
Cast: Jesse Eisenberg,Anne Hathaway,Leslie Mann,Jemaine Clement,George Lopez,Jamie Foxx,
Content: A misfit macaw named Blu (voice of Jesse Eisenberg) heads to Rio de Janeiro, embarks on a magnificent journey, and makes some loyal new friends in this animated adventure for the entire family. Domesticated from the time he was just a hatchling, Blu traded a life in the clouds for a contented existence in Moose Lake with his doting owner, Linda (Leslie Mann). They live under the impression that Blu is the last of his kind, but upon receiving word that a female macaw named Jewel (Anne Hathaway) has been discovered in Rio de Janeiro, Linda and Blu set their sights on South America on a mission to replenish the species. Shortly after their arrival in the Brazilian capitol, however, the two rare birds fall victim to a gang of greedy animal smugglers intent on making a mint by selling Blu and Jewel to the highest bidder. But the headstrong Jewel isn't about to be locked in a cage and put on display, so when the opportunity arises she stages a daring escape with the help of some wisecracking local birds, and takes her new friend Blu along for the ride. With the bumbling birdnappers fast closing in, Blu realizes that his only hope for making a clean getaway and reuniting with Linda is to finally summon the courage he needs to take flight. Rio also features the voices of Tracy Morgan, Jamie Foxx, George Lopez, and will.i.am. 
Wiki info: 
Rio, often promoted as Rio: The Movie or The Rio Movie, is a 2011 American 3D computer-animated musical adventure-comedy film produced by Blue Sky Studios and directed by Carlos Saldanha. The title refers to the Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro, where the film is set. The film features the voices of Jesse Eisenberg, Anne Hathaway, will.i.am, Jamie Foxx, George Lopez, Tracy Morgan, Jemaine Clement, Leslie Mann, Rodrigo Santoro, and Jake T. Austin. It tells the story of Blu (Eisenberg), a male blue macaw who is taken to Rio de Janeiro to mate with a female blue macaw, Jewel (Hathaway). He eventually falls in love with her, a free-spirited macaw, and together they have to escape from being smuggled by Nigel (Clement), a cockatoo. The theme song, "Telling the World" was sung by Taio Cruz.
Saldanha developed his first story concept of Rio in 1995, in which a penguin is washed up in Rio. However, Saldanha learned of the production of the films Happy Feet (2006) and Surf's Up (2007), and changed the concept to involve macaws and their environments in Rio. He proposed his idea to Chris Wedge in 2006, and the project was set up at Blue Sky. The main voice actors were approached in 2009. During production, the crew visited Rio de Janeiro and also consulted with an expert on macaws at the Bronx Zoo to study their movements.
20th Century Fox released the film on March 22, 2011 in Brazil, and on April 15, 2011 in the United States. The film received generally positive reviews from film critics. Observers praised the visuals, voice acting, and music. The film was also a box office success, grossing over $143 million in the United States and $484 million worldwide. The film was nominated for Academy Award for Best Original Song for the song "Real in Rio", but lost to the other nominee, "Man or Muppet" from The Muppets.
In Brazil, various exotic birds are smuggled out of the country. In Moose Lake, Minnesota, a crate with a male blue macaw hatchling falls out of a truck and is found by a little girl named Linda Gunderson, who names him Blue. Fifteen years later, Linda owns a bookstore. Blu, highly domesticated and unable to fly, is ridiculed frequently by the Canada Geese that come by the outside of Linda's bookstore.
One day, ornithologist Túlio Monteiro invites Blu and Linda to Rio de Janeiro on the condition that Blu, who is the last male of his species, mates with a female macaw. Linda accepts and they fly to Rio, where Blu meets a Red-crested Cardinal named Pedro and his Yellow Canary friend Nico. At Túlio's aviary, Blu falls in love with Jewel, a confident and independent blue macaw longing to flee into the wilderness. The macaws are captured by Fernando, an impoverished orphan boy, and a Sulphur-crested Cockatoo named Nigel, both of whom work for a group of smugglers led by Marcel. While Fernando has second thoughts about his actions, Nigel tells the macaws that he vowed to smuggle exotic birds in revenge after his role on a television program had been replaced by one. However, because of Blu's familiarity with cages, the macaws are able flee into a jungle.
Fernando meets Linda and Túlio and tells them that Marcel forced him to capture birds, before cooperating with the two to find Blu. Meanwhile, Blu and Jewel meet a Toco Toucan named Rafael, who offers to take them to his bulldog friend Luiz to remove their leg chain. He tries to teach Blu how to fly, before they meet up with Pedro and Nico. Nigel hires a horde of thieving marmosets to capture Blu and Jewel. Pedro and Nico take Blu and Jewel to a bird's Rio-style party, where they perform a duet, but encounter the marmosets. Their bird friends fight them off while Blu's group escapes. Fernando takes Linda and Túlio to the smugglers hideout, where they discover that the birds have already been moved out. Marcel, wanting to leave the country as soon as possible to secure a black market deal regarding Blu and Jewel, explains that he will use the Rio Carnival parade to smuggle the birds to the airport, as all the other streets have been blocked off for the festivities.
Meanwhile, Blu and the others meet Luiz, who releases the chain holding Blu and Jewel. Blu, thinking that his inability to fly will only be a burden to Jewel, argues with Jewel before going their separate ways. Pedro and Nico witness Nigel capturing Jewel. When Blu and Rafael learn from Pedro and Nico that Nigel captured Jewel, they rush to the carnival to rescue her. Meanwhile, Linda and Túlio have spotted the smuggler's parade float and organize a rescue attempt for the birds.
As Linda and Túlio pose as dancers in blue macaw costumes, Nigel captures Blu and the group. Linda and Túlio fail to stop the smugglers on time and Marcel's group takes off in a Short SC.7 Skyvan. On board, Blu destroys his cage using his fire hydrant and releases Jewel. The macaws release the captive birds, but Nigel injures Jewel. Blu sends Nigel flying into the plane engine using the now active fire hydrant, and the smugglers flee the plane. Unable to fly, Jewel falls out of the plane's open cargo hatch towards the ocean. Jumping out of the plane to rescue Jewel, Blu finally discovers that he is able to fly. Blu carries Jewel back to Linda and Túlio for help. Later, Linda and Túlio adopt Fernando, heal Jewel, and organize a sanctuary to protect the jungle from smugglers. Blu and Jewel raise three baby birds together and celebrate with their bird friends, Nigel is ridiculed for his loss of feathers, and the smugglers are sent to jail.

