Prep_&_Landing
Released Year: 2009
Running time: 22
Director: Stevie Wermers-Skelton
Cast: Dave Foley,Derek Richardson,Sarah Chalke,W. Morgan Sheppard,Mason Vale Cotton,Nathan Greno and David DeLuise,Hayes Macarthur,Tiny is Magee's,
Content: ABC and Walt Disney Studios team to deliver this jovial holiday special detailing the Christmas adventures of Prep & Landing, an elite, high-tech unit of elves whose job it is to prepare homes for a visit from the big guy in red. Devoted elf Wayne (voice of Dave Foley) has been working Prep & Landing duty for 227 years, and he's ready for a promotion to Director of Naughty List Intelligence. But North Pole Christmas Eve Command Center Coordinator Magee (voice of Sarah Chalke) has other plans for Wayne. When Magee teams Wayne with enthusiastic rookie elf Lanny (voice of Derek Richardson), it becomes obvious that this Christmas is going to be anything but typical. 
Wiki info: 
Dorothy McKim
Disney Prep & Landing is a computer animated television special, based on an idea by Chris Williams at Walt Disney Animation Studios and developed by Kevin Deters and Stevie Wermers-Skelton into a half-hour Christmas special. It first aired December 8, 2009 on ABC.
The special was released on-line the next day, along with an original one minute short film Tiny's BIG Adventure. A sequel, Operation: Secret Santa, aired on December 7, 2010, reprising the original cast with the addition of Betty White as Mrs. Claus. The second half-hour Christmas TV special, Prep & Landing: Naughty vs. Nice aired on December 5, 2011, on ABC, with another holiday special being planned for the future.
Wayne, a Christmas elf, is part of an elite organization known as "Prep & Landing", whose job is to ready millions of homes around the world for Santa Claus's visit. After working with "Prep & Landing" for 227 years, Wayne looks forward to getting promoted. Instead, his former partner and trainee, Peterson, gets the promotion, and Wayne is introduced to Lanny, a rookie whom Wayne has to also train. Wayne is still bitter about the promotion, and decides to slack off during a mission. He permits Lanny to do all of the work, which is disastrous. Meanwhile, Santa is informed mid-flight of a massive snow storm and that Wayne and Lanny haven't fully prepared the house yet. He is told to cancel the landing, which has never happened before; they promise to make it up for Timmy, a boy living at the house. Wayne and Lanny discover that the re-routing was a final decision, but after hearing Timmy thank them in his sleep, Wayne decides to fix it. He calls up Santa, telling him that he must land at Timmy's house. Wayne and Lanny then work together to land Santa safely on Timmy's roof. On Christmas morning, Santa shows Wayne that Timmy had a merry Christmas. Santa offers a promotion to Wayne, but he turns it down so he can work with Lanny.

