Universal_Soldier:_Day_of_Reckoning
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 113
Director: John Hyams
Cast: Jean-Claude Van Damme,Scott Adkins,Dolph Lundgren,Rus Blackwell,Mariah Bonner,Kristopher Van Varenberg,Andrei Arlovski,Audrey P. Scott,Roy Jones, Jr.,
Content: Universal Soldier: Regeneration director John Hyams once again gives the long-running action franchise a rejuvenating adrenaline boost with this sequel centering on a haunted soldier who vows vengeance on Deveraux (Jean-Claude Van Damme) and his army of superpowered henchmen after seeing them kill his family in cold blood. Dolph Lundgren co-stars. 
Wiki info: 
Universal Soldier: Day of Reckoning is a 2012 American science fiction action film co-written, co-edited and directed by John Hyams, starring Jean-Claude Van Damme, Scott Adkins, and Dolph Lundgren. A semi-sequel to Regeneration, it is the first in the Universal Soldier series to be filmed in 3-D.
John (Scott Adkins) awakens from a coma to discover his wife and daughter were brutally murdered in a home invasion. Haunted by images of the attack, he vows to kill the man responsible: Luc Deveraux (Jean-Claude Van Damme), one of the original Universal Soldiers. While John tries to piece his reality back together, things are complicated by a relentless UniSol named Magnus (Andrei Arlovski), who is determined to kill John. Meanwhile, Deveraux and surviving UniSol Andrew Scott (Dolph Lundgren) are preparing to unleash anarchy and build a new order ruled by Unisols. They are weeding out the weak and constantly testing their strongest warriors in brutal, life-and-death combat. Luc has emerged operating the Unisol Church of Eventualism, taking in wayward Unisols whom the government has been secretly operating as remote-controlled sleeper agents. His mission is to liberate these Unisols from the implanted memories and the lies the government has inserted in them. As John gets closer to Deveraux and the rogue army of genetically enhanced warriors, he discovers more about himself and begins to call into question everything he believed to be true.

