Bad_Ass
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 89
Director: Craig Moss
Cast: Danny Trejo,Charles S. Dutton,Chris Spencer,Christine Clayburg,Craig Sheffer,Danny Woodburn,Donzaleigh Abernathy,Duane Whitaker,Ezra Buzzington,Frank Maharajh,Harrison Page,Isabella Cascarano,Jennifer Blanc,Jillian Murray,John Duffy,Joyful Drake,Patrick Fabian,Patricia De Leon,Richard Riehle,Ron Perlman,Sam Rubin,Shalim Ortiz,Winter Ave Zoli,
Content: A decorated Vietnam veteran becomes a local hero after standing up to a pair of skinheads on a transit bus, and he later takes the law into his own hands after the police fail to investigate the brutal murder of his best friend. When Frank Vega (Danny Trejo) returned home from fighting for his country, he should have been hailed as a hero. Instead, he drifted into the margins of society after failing to find a job and being abandoned by his high-school sweetheart. Decades later, when Frank sees a pair of skinheads harassing an elderly black man on a city bus, he knocks them both out as the incident is captured on video. An instant viral hit, the widely circulated video turns Frank into an Internet celebrity. But his fame comes at a high price when his best friend Klondike is killed and authorities sweep the murder under the rug. Meanwhile, Frank's biggest battle is yet to come. Ron Perlman and Charles S. Dutton co-star. 
Wiki info: 
Bad Ass is a 2012 American action film written by Elliot Tishman. Directed by Craig Moss, the film stars Danny Trejo, Charles S. Dutton, and Ron Perlman. It is loosely based on the AC Transit Bus fight.
Decorated Vietnam vet Frank Vega (Danny Trejo) returns home only to be shunned by society, leaving him without a job or his high school sweetheart. It's not until forty years later when an incident on a commuter bus, where he protects an elderly black man from a pair of skinheads, makes him a local hero, and he's suddenly celebrated once again. But his good fortune suddenly turns for the worse when his best friend Klondike (Harrison Page) is murdered and the police aren't doing anything about it.

