Flying_Swords_of_Dragon_Gate
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 122
Director: Tsui Hark
Cast: Jet Li,Zhou Xun,Chen Kun,Li Yuchun,Gwei Lun-mei,Louis Fan,Mavis Fan,Wu Di,Zhuang Guoqi,Li Yuan,Gordon Liu,Zhang Xinyu,
Content: Ming Dynasty general Chow Wai-On (Jet Li) clashes with nefarious eunuch Yu Hua-Tian (Chen Kun), but the real action begins when the feuding pair encounter Lin Yan-Qiu (Zhou Xun) at a secluded desert outpost known as the Dragon Gate Inn. 
Wiki info: 
Flying Swords of Dragon Gate is a 2011 wuxia film directed by Tsui Hark and starring Jet Li, Zhou Xun, Chen Kun, Li Yuchun, Gwei Lun-mei, Louis Fan and Mavis Fan. The film is a remake of Dragon Gate Inn (1966) and New Dragon Gate Inn (1992). Production started on October 10, 2010 and is filmed in 3-D. The film screened out of competition at the 62nd Berlin International Film Festival in February 2012. The film received seven nominations at the 2012 Asian Film Awards, including Best Picture and Best Director.
The Emperors' eunuchs have gained power and influence, the East Bureau and West Bureau spy and police the nation. They visit the shipyards, but only as cover to execute those who would try and report their taking of bribes to the Emperor. Wandering hero Zhou Huai'an fights the leader of the East Bureau, defeating him and putting his head in a box and hanging it as a warning to other corrupt officials.
The Emperors chief concubine asks the West Bureau why they waste time on power struggles when she only cares for them to prevent the Emperor making anyone but her pregnant. Three courtesans have been executed, a fourth is being hunted down. Officials stop a riverboat and are about to execute a woman but a masked hero intervenes. Zhou watches from nearby and the masked hero also claims to be Zhou. The imposter helps the courtesan flee to Dragons Gate, Zhou and his followers decide to fight the West Bureau help delay them and aid in the escape.
A sandstorm threatens the Dragons Gate, and most travellers flee to the more sheltered courier station but a few bandits and mercenaries and the officials hunting the missing courtesan remain. The group of rogues plan to find a treasure hidden by the sandstorms.

