Wu_Dang
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 101
Director: Patrick Leung
Cast: Vincent Zhao,Yang Mi,Louis Fan,Dennis To,Xu Jiao,Paw Hee-ching,Henry Fong,Tam Chun-yin,Wang Xiao,Wang Yuying,Xiao Xiangfei,Liu Jiayu,Zhou Yang,Tian Ruihui,
Content: Upon learning that the Wu Dang Mountain may house untold treasures, a greedy American takes his martial artist daughter to Republican China to compete in a kung-fu tournament, and schemes to steal the fortune before fleeing the country. But the closer the treasure hunter gets to his prize, the further it seems to slip out of reach. 
Wiki info: 
Wu Dang is a 2012 Chinese-Hong Kong martial arts fantasy film directed by Patrick Leung, starring Vincent Zhao, Yang Mi, Louis Fan, Dennis To, and Xu Jiao. It was first released in mainland China on 6 July 2012.
The story is set in the early Republican era in China. Tang Yunlong, an archaeology professor, returns from the United States to China, bringing along his daughter Tang Ning with him. He meets Paul Chen, an antique seller who deals in stolen artefacts from all over China. A fight breaks out when Tang seizes a treasure map from Chen and he defeats Chen's men and escapes with the map. The Tangs then make their way to the Wudang Mountains to attend a martial arts contest. Elsewhere, on an aeroplane, a girl called Tianxin fights with other martial artists on board and steals an invitation card to attend the event at Wudang.
At Wudang, it is revealed that Tang Yunlong and Tianxin are there for the same objective - to hunt for seven treasures hidden all over the Wudang Mountains. Tianxin only wants one of the seven, a sword, and she insists that it belonged to her family. On the other hand, Tang Yunlong is searching for a magic pill which can cure his daughter of a rare medical illness, because the same illness killed his wife and he does not want to lose his daughter too. While hunting for the treasures, Tang Yunlong and Tianxin have several encounters and confrontations with the Wudang guardians keeping watch over the treasures, as well as with Paul Chen and his men, who are also there for the treasures.

