The_Dinosaur_Project
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 0
Director: Sid Bennett
Cast: 
Content: An intrepid team of Western explorers become stranded in the treacherous heart of a lost dinosaur colony while searching the jungles of Africa for a mythical river creature in this ambitious found footage adventure. Determined to be the first to gain proof of the elusive river-dweller, a fearless adventurer gathers up a crew, and wanders deep into the African jungles. Unaware that his tech-savvy son has stowed away on the helicopter until it is already too late, the leader of the expedition fights to keep his boy safe after a flock of enormous birds send their chopper plummeting to the ground. Later, as the survivors attempt to make their way back to safety, they realize they are surrounded by creatures thought to have been extinct for millions of years. Now if they can just make it back to civilization alive, their incredible video footage will most certainly rock the scientific community to its very core. 
Wiki info: 
The Dinosaur Project is a 2012 Irish adventure film written and directed by Sid Bennett.
A group of explorers from the British Cryptozoological Society go on an expedition into the Congo in search of the cryptid, the Mokele Mbembe. Along with the five explorers are two television cameramen who would be recording the whole expedition. The explorers consist of their leader Johnathan, their medic Liz, their sponsor organizer Charlie, their pilot and a local guide, Amara. During the helicopter flight, Johnathan discovers that his son, Luke has sneaked into the chopper in the stowaway. Shortly after, a flock of large flying reptiles appear and one of them crashes into the chopper blades, causing the helicopter to crash. The pilot dies in the crash and everyone else escapes just before the chopper explodes. Now lost, Amara suggests that they should head to the village they saw while they were in the helicopter. Upon arriving, the group discovers that the villagers have been killed by something. Johnathan chooses a hut to stay in for the night and his son, who is a smart techno-geek, installs a night vision camera outside the hut. In the night, everyone is woken up by a strange noise and Luke sees a swarm of bat-like reptiles outside the hut using his night vision camera. Charlie accidentally alerts the creatures and end up running away from the village which is infested with the animals. Liz is attacked and presumably killed while the rest escape in a pair of wooden boats. The next morning, the boats are damaged by an unseen force and everyone is temporarily stranded on a small island.
The first trailer for the film was released on 11 July 2012. The film was released in cinemas in the UK on 10 August 2012. It is scheduled for release in cinemas worldwide through 2012–13, starting with South-East Asia on 23 August 2012.
On its UK cinema release, the film received reviews averaging 3 stars out of 5. The Financial Times awarded the film 4 out of 5 stars (80%) and called it "rip-roaring fun...Feature debutant Sid Bennett’s motion-capture movie also does emotion capture. You will jump, gasp, grimace, just like the characters. The creatures are often very creepy. The Cloverfield-style dependency on “found footage” means everyone on screen must have a camera, but even that is carried off with dash and nonchalance." Digital Spy awarded the movie 3 stars out of 5 (60%) and labelled it "Decent found-footage caper...The Dinosaur Project is good and undemanding fun. There are enough sharp claws to overcome the flaws and ensure this is never a dino-bore... The Guardian wrote 'The CGI monsters are surprisingly convincing and children will identify with the intrepid 15-year-old lad who stows away on his dad's helicopter and turns up trumps by using his computer wizardry." Screenjabber.com awarded the film 3½ stars out of 5 and wrote "definitely go see this film if not for the computer-generated dinosaurs. It’s no Jurassic Park, but they did create some pretty cool-looking prehistoric monsters." Total Film awarded it three stars and said “there’s little Spielbergian bite to this low-budget Brit flick...Its money shots generally impress, and the breakneck pace bounds over a multitude of sins – including Park’s deadly dilophosaurus getting a makeover as a cute little critter that’ll have the nippers cooing.” IGN awarded the film 4 out of ten and said “Writer-director Sid Bennett does manage to eek moments of tension out of the premise, and the vast African vistas glimpsed throughout are a joy to behold...a found footage flick that disappoints at just about every turn, and makes you wish the tapes had remained lost.” The Independent awarded the film two stars and said “for all the silliness you may find yourself entertained.” SFX awarded the film two and a half out of five stars and said “...has just enough charm to be worth a look – particularly if you have kids who like watching giant reptiles eating people...A few unexpected twists that mark it out as interesting (the running order of the deaths isn’t quite what you’d expect, for example) and the dinos are a cut above most films of this nature – particularly one little cutie who’s basically dino-Lassie. Admirably, the vast majority of the action is shot on location, with some white-water rafting to spice up the scenes with no reptiles in. Despite the plus points, though, it’s still a cheesy, childish adventure which tries very hard not to be the TV movie it actually is.” Empire Magazine awarded the film two stars and said that the film was “More Terra Nova meets Sanctum 3D than Jurassic Park meets Cloverfield.”
On its Malaysian cinema release, the movie was a commercial hit, entering the box office charts in second position behind The Expendables 2. On its release in Thailand, The Dinosaur Project attained third spot. Its international release continues through 2012 and 2013.

