Resident_Evil:_Retribution
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 96
Director: Paul W.S. Anderson
Cast: Milla Jovovich,Sienna Guillory,Michelle Rodriguez,Aryana Engineer,Johann Urb,Kevin Durand,Li Bingbing,Oded Fehr,Boris Kodjoe,Colin Salmon,Shawn Roberts,Mika Nakashima,Megan Charpentier and Ave Merson-O'Brian (voice),
Content: Awakening in a top-secret Umbrella facility as the T-virus threatens to wipe out the last remnants of humanity, Alice (Milla Jovovich) must battle her way through virtual simulations in order to break out of the complex and save the Earth in this fifth Resident Evil film. While the apocalyptic plague rages above ground, below the surface lies a massive base powered the evil supercomputer, the Red Queen, who will stop at nothing to contain humanity's only biologically-enhanced hope that is Alice. While factions in the Umbrella Corporation strive to help Alice escape, the Red Queen unleashes zombies, monsters, and clones of her ex-comrades to stop her. Only when Alice stumbles across a young girl who's been bred to think that she is her mother does the two-fisted heroine find a new reason to live. Sienna Guillory, Michelle Rodriguez, and Kevin Durand co-star. 
Wiki info: 
Resident Evil: Retribution is a 2012 science fiction action film written and directed by Paul W. S. Anderson. It is the fifth installment in the Resident Evil film series, based on the Capcom survival horror video game series Resident Evil, and the third to be written and directed by Anderson after the first film and the previous installment.
Retribution is a direct follow-on from the previous film Resident Evil: Afterlife, and focuses on Alice (Milla Jovovich) captured by the Umbrella Corporation, forcing her to make her escape from an underwater base in the Arctic Circle, used for testing the T-virus. The film has many returning actors and characters, along with new characters from the video game not featured in the previous films. Filming took place from October to December 2011 for a scheduled release date of September 14, 2012.
The film was released in 2D, 3D and IMAX 3D to a box-office success, grossing over $200 million worldwide. Film critics criticized the film for its characters, plot, and acting while praising the 3D, visual effects, and fight choreography. The Blu-ray and DVD for the film was released on December 21, 2012, and a sixth installment is planned by Sony.
Following where the previous film left off, Alice (Milla Jovovich) and the others on the Umbrella Corporation freighter Arcadia face an attack by a fleet of airships led by Alice's former ally, Jill Valentine (Sienna Guillory), who has been brainwashed by Umbrella through a red scarab device attached to her chest. When Alice causes an airship to crash into the ship, the resulting explosion knocks her out and throws her into the water.
The story switches to Alice living as suburban housewife, with her husband Todd (Oded Fehr) and deaf daughter Becky (Aryana Engineer). This idyllic life is disrupted when zombies attack. Alice and Becky escape to the streets and are rescued by a student, Rain Ocampo (Michelle Rodriguez), who lets them ride in her car. As the three escape, they are hit by a truck, knocking Rain unconscious while Alice and Becky escape. Alice runs and is attacked by a zombified Todd.
Alice awakens a captive in an Umbrella base. Jill interrogates Alice, who unsuccessfully pleads with her to remember her true identity. During a power failure, Alice escapes from her cell and fights her way through a Tokyo simulation and encounters Ada Wong (Li Bingbing), one of Albert Wesker's (Shawn Roberts) top agents. Ada explains they no longer serve Umbrella. Wesker appears on screen and reveals that the Red Queen is controlling what remains of Umbrella and he plans to help Alice escape, in order to save what's left of mankind. Ada explains the base is underwater, where they held simulated outbreaks to sell the T-virus to different countries; this lead to the world-wide outbreak. To infiltrate the base from outside and help Alice and Ada escape, Wesker has organized a team: Leon S. Kennedy (Johann Urb), Barry Burton (Kevin Durand), and also Luther West (Boris Kodjoe), an Arcadia survivor.
Leon's team plants explosives near the entrance of the base, which will detonate in two hours and trap anybody still inside. The group plans to meet with Alice and Ada in a simulated Raccoon City suburbia, identical to the one in Alice's flashback. In a New York simulation, Alice and Ada defeat two Axemen, prompting the Red Queen to send Jill after them next. Leon and his team enter a Moscow simulation, but are cut off by armed Las Plagas zombies. Alice and Ada manage to enter the suburban simulation where they were supposed to meet up with Leon's team. They find Becky there, revealing the "suburban Alice" is actually a clone of Alice created by Umbrella. Ada explains Umbrella uses the clones for virus outbreak simulations and Umbrella troops; Becky, Todd, and Rain were clones as well. Jill and her mercenaries, consisting of clones of Alice's deceased allies: an "evil" Rain, Carlos Oliviera (Oded Fehr) and James "One" Shade (Colin Salmon) arrive and demand their immediate surrender. A shoot-out occurs, resulting in Ada being captured while Alice and Becky escape.
Alice and Becky run into the "good" Rain and head to Moscow simulation, where they meet up with Leon's team. The group escapes the intelligent zombies, and reach an elevator that leads them to submarines that could help them escape, although it shuts off. An Uber-Licker appears, with it capturing Becky and killing "good" Rain by throwing her and breaking her neck. The group pursues the Uber-Licker, where they encounter Jill's group; another battle ensues, in which Barry and One are casualties. Alice manages to rescue Becky despite Leon's discourage of Becky just being a clone. During their escape from the Uber-Licker, they arrive at a cloning facility where Alice and Becky see multiple copies of themselves. When Becky asks Alice if she really is her mother, Alice says she is now. The Uber-Licker follows them into the cloning facility, where Alice drops grenades, and fires a grappling hook from the grapple gun, and escapes the explosion. They rejoin Leon and Luther as the detonation occurs. The explosion results in the flooding of the facility and the death of Carlos.
The group reaches the surface and await pickup but they are met by a submarine, from which Jill, the "evil" Rain, and a captured Ada emerge. With new orders from the Red Queen to kill Alice, Jill battles Alice. Rain injects herself with the Las Plagas parasite to give herself superhuman strength and healing; she knocks out Ada and fights Leon and Luther. Alice manages to remove and destroy the scarab device on Jill, returning her to normal; however, unlike Claire, she retains her memories. Rain kills Luther and knocks Leon out. Alice realizes she cannot kill Rain and instead shoots the ice, Rain falls in the water, and vows to get Alice but is dragged under by the Plagas zombies. Leon looks after Ada but Alice collapses from her injuries. She wakes in a helicopter, with everyone left safe. Alice, Ada, Becky, Leon, and Jill travel to Wesker's base: the heavily barricaded and guarded White House. Wesker injects Alice with the T-Virus, returning her former powers; as the only one to successfuly bond with it, Alice is the ultimate weapon. On the roof, Wesker explains the Red Queen is trying to destroy humanity, and all that remains of the uninfected are in the base; it's humanity's last stand. A pull-away shows Wesker's Umbrella troops defending the White House alongside the remaining Military Soldiers against enormous hordes of zombies and mutant creatures.

