The_Adventures_of_Tintin
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 106
Director: Steven Spielberg
Cast: Jamie Bell,Andy Serkis,Daniel Craig,Nick Frost and Simon Pegg,Enn Reitel,Tony Curran,Toby Jones plays Aristides Silk, a pickpocket.,Gad Elmaleh,Daniel Mays,Mackenzie Crook,Kim Stengel,Joe Starr,Sonje Fortag,Cary Elwes and Phillip Rhys,Ron Bottitta,Mark Ivanir,Sebastian Roché,Nathan Meister,Sana Etoile,
Content: Director Steven Spielberg kicks off the big-screen Tintin trilogy with this computer-animated, motion-capture adaptation of Herge's beloved Tintin comic strip. Produced by Spielberg, Peter Jackson, and Kathleen Kennedy, the first installment in the series finds adventure-seeking Belgian reporter Tintin (voiced by Jamie Bell) and surly Captain Haddock (voiced by Andy Serkis) racing to recover a treasure that was lost at sea four centuries ago. Meanwhile, the malevolent Red Rackham (voiced by Daniel Craig) is determined to beat them to it. Simon Pegg, Nick Frost, and Toby Jones provide additional voices for a film written by Edgar Wright, Joe Cornish, and Steven Moffat. 
Wiki info: 
The Adventures of Tintin, known as The Adventures of Tintin: The Secret of the Unicorn outside North America, is a 2011 American 3D motion capture computer-animated adventure film based on The Adventures of Tintin comics by cartoonist Hergé. Directed by Steven Spielberg, produced by Peter Jackson, and written by Steven Moffat, Edgar Wright and Joe Cornish, the film is based on three of Hergé's albums: The Crab with the Golden Claws (1941), The Secret of the Unicorn (1943), and Red Rackham's Treasure (1944). The cast includes Jamie Bell, Andy Serkis, Daniel Craig, Nick Frost, and Simon Pegg.
Spielberg acquired rights to produce a film based on the Adventures of Tintin series following Hergé's death in 1983, and re-optioned them in 2002. Filming was due to begin in October 2008 for a 2010 release, but release was delayed to 2011 after Universal opted out of producing the film with Paramount, who provided $30&#160;million on pre-production. Sony chose to co-produce the film. The delay resulted in Thomas Sangster, who had been originally cast as Tintin, departing from the project. Producer Peter Jackson, whose company Weta Digital provided the computer animation, intends to direct a sequel. Spielberg and Jackson also hope to co-direct a third film. The world première took place on October 22, 2011 in Brussels. The film was released in the UK and other European countries on October 26, 2011, and in the USA on December 21, 2011, in Digital 3D and IMAX.
The Adventures of Tintin received positive reviews from critics, and grossed over $373 million. It won the award for Best Animated Feature Film at the 69th Golden Globe Awards. Williams was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Score. It was nominated for six Saturn Awards, including Best Animated Film, Best Director for Spielberg and Best Music for Williams. As of 2012, it is the highest grossing Nickelodeon film.
Tintin (Bell), a young journalist, and his dog Snowy are browsing in an outdoor market in Brussels, Belgium. Tintin buys a miniature model of a ship, the Unicorn, but is then accosted by Ivan Ivanovitch Sakharine (Craig) and Barnaby (Joe Starr), who both unsuccessfully try to buy the model from Tintin. Tintin takes the ship home, but it is accidentally broken, resulting in a parchment scroll slipping out of the model and rolling under a piece of furniture. Meanwhile, detectives Thomson and Thompson (Frost and Pegg) are on the trail of a pickpocket, Aristides Silk (Toby Jones). Tintin finds that the Unicorn has been stolen. Snowy shows him the scroll and after reading a message written on it, Tintin pockets it in his wallet. He then visits Sakharine in Marlinspike Hall and accuses him of the theft when he sees a miniature model of the Unicorn, but when he notices that Sakharine's model is not broken, he realizes that there are two Unicorn models. Tintin puts the scroll in his wallet, but the latter is stolen by Silk.
Later, Tintin is abducted by accomplices of Sakharine and imprisoned on the SS Karaboudjan. On board, Tintin meets the ship's nominal captain, Haddock (Serkis). Haddock is permanently drunk and thus unaware of the happenings on board his ship. Tintin, Haddock, and Snowy eventually escape from the Karaboudjan in a lifeboat. Sakharine sends a seaplane to find them, which the trio seize and use to fly towards the fictitious Moroccan port of Bagghar, but the seaplane crashes in the desert.
Haddock hallucinates and remembers facts about an ancestor of his, Sir Francis Haddock (Serkis), who was a 17th-century captain of the Unicorn: Sir Francis' treasure-laden ship was attacked by the crew of a pirate ship, led by Red Rackham (Craig) and after his eventual surrender, Sir Francis sank the Unicorn, and most of the treasure, to prevent it from falling into Rackham's possession. It transpires that there were three Unicorn models, each containing a scroll; together, the scrolls can reveal the location of the sunken Unicorn and its treasure.
The third model is in Bagghar, possessed by Omar Ben Salaad (Gad Elmaleh). Sakharine steals the third scroll and escapes with all three scrolls to Europe. Tintin and Haddock track Sakharine down, who is revealed to be a descendant of Red Rackham; Sakharine is arrested by Thomson and Thompson. Guided by the three scrolls indicating the location of Marlinspike Hall, Tintin and Haddock find there some of the treasure and a clue to the Unicorn's location. The film ends with both men agreeing to continue their search of the shipwreck.

