The_Raid:_Redemption
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 101
Director: Gareth Evans
Cast: Iko Uwais,Donny Alamsyah,Ray Sahetapy,Yayan Ruhian,Pierre Gruno,Joe Taslim,Tegar Satrya,Eka "Piranha" Rahmadia,Verdi Solaiman,Ananda George,
Content: A police raid on a Jakarta tenement building turns into a non-stop bloodbath when the drug dealer who owns it unleashes a furious barrage of fists, bullets, and blades, leaving the few remaining survivors of the invading SWAT team to fight their way up to the top and end the psychotic criminal's violent reign once and for all. Expectant father Rama (Iko Uwais) is an honest cop with deadeye aim and killer fighting skills. Following orders from his lieutenant -- a respected police veteran and mastermind of the ambitious raid -- Rama leads his heavily-armed team into the building silently and stealthily. Their mission is to take down Tama (Ray Sahetapy), a vicious criminal kingpin who uses the building as a shelter for both his many customers and his small army of loyal dealers and killers. Even the bravest cops in the city have never dared to breach Tama's fortress, and once the team's cover is blown, it quickly becomes apparent why; almost immediately, half of the team is shredded in a vicious barrage of gunfire and machetes. The exits have all been blocked, and with Tama's men closing in fast Rama's only hope is to keep going up and take out anyone who gets in his path. Meanwhile, Tama realizes that some of the cops have managed to survive the initial assault, so he unleashes two of his best men to stop them dead in their tracks. With his team cut down to a mere handful and his munitions exhausted, the determined cop vows to complete his mission by whatever means necessary. The Raid made its North American debut at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival, where it quickly gained buzz thanks to an enthusiastic audience reception, while also garnering the Cadillac People's Choice Midnight Madness Award. 
Wiki info: 
The Raid: Redemption (Indonesian: Serbuan Maut, meaning "The Deadly Raid"; also known as just The Raid) is a 2011 Indonesian martial arts action film written and directed by Gareth Evans and starring Iko Uwais. This is the second collaboration of Evans and Uwais after their first action film, Merantau released in 2009. Both films showcase the traditional Indonesian martial art pencak silat. The fight choreographers of The Raid are Iko Uwais and Yayan Ruhian who also worked on Merantau. The U.S. release of the film features music by Mike Shinoda and Joseph Trapanese.
After its world premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF), The Raid received positive reviews from critics. The name of the film was changed to The Raid: Redemption in the United States because the distibutor company Sony Pictures Classics could not secure the rights to the title; this also allowed Evans to plan out future titles in the series. It was released in the United States on DVD and Blu-ray on August 14, 2012.
Early in the morning, Rama, an expectant father and rookie officer, and a 20-man Detachment 88 special police squad led by Sergeant Jaka and Lieutenant Wahyu, arrive at an apartment block in Jakarta's slums undetected. It is run by Tama Riyadi, a crime lord, who is the target of the task force. While detaining various tenants of the apartment, the team eventually detains a man who is delivering medicine to his sick wife in room 726. However, before the team enters the apartment, he escapes. The team infiltrates the apartment block floor by floor until they reach the sixth floor. However, the team is seen by a young lookout, who raises the alarm before he is shot and killed.
Tama calls in reinforcements, who systematically take out a majority of the police and regain control of most of the building. Tama turns off the power to the building's central stairwell. He announces over the building's PA system that the police are trapped on the sixth floor and he will grant free permanent residence to those who kill the intruders. In the darkness, the team is soon ambushed by shooters from above, as well as others who flank them from behind. During the battle, Jaka learns from Wahyu that the mission isn't sanctioned by the force, meaning nobody knows their location and no backup or reinforcements will arrive. The team backs into an empty apartment from the stairwell, where Bowo is shot and injured. They narrowly escape after Rama improvises an explosion that kills the pursuing tenants. With more antagonists approaching, the team is forced to split into two groups covertly; Jaka, Wahyu, and Dagu retreat to the fifth floor, while Rama and Bowo ascend to the seventh.
Rama and Bowo make their way to the apartment of the man with the sick wife, who reluctantly agrees to hide them despite his wife's pleas not to get involved. They hide in a secret passage behind a wall. A gang arrives and inspects the man's apartment, but they find no one, and leave. After removing the bullet stuck in Bowo, Rama leaves him in the care of the couple as he goes out in search of the others. Rama is eventually captured by Andi, Tama's right hand man. At the same time, Jaka and his group are found by Mad Dog, Tama's ruthless henchman. Wahyu makes his escape, but Jaka orders Dagu to follow him. Armed with only a knife, Jaka is confronted by Mad Dog, who holds him at gunpoint and leads him into an apartment unit. There, he disarms and challenges Jaka to a fight with no weapons. After a brutal fight, Jaka is subdued and Mad Dog kills him. Meanwhile at Andi's apartment, it is revealed that he is Rama's estranged brother, and that Rama's personal hidden objective throughout the mission was to find him and bring him home. Andi is uninterested in leaving, but he advises Rama to wait briefly until it is safe to escape the area. Andi meets up with Mad Dog, who drags Jaka's body to Tama. Tama learns of Andi's betrayal from the closed-circuit camera footage of Andi pulling Rama to safety in his apartment. Tama stabs Andi in the hand before turning him over to Mad Dog.
Rama regroups with Wahyu and Dagu, who go on to fight Tama's henchmen in a narcotics lab, and then to the 15th floor where Tama is located. On the way up, Rama finds a room where Andi is being beaten by Mad Dog. As Rama enters, Mad Dog allows him to free Andi and prepares to fight them both. Rama and Andi team up against Mad Dog, and after sustaining more brutal beatings, kill him. Meanwhile, Wahyu and Dagu confront Tama, but Wahyu shoots and kills Dagu. Wahyu is convinced that holding Tama hostage will allow him to escape. Rama and Andi run into Wahyu and Tama, but Wahyu fires at them. While Wahyu keeps the two at bay, Tama gloats that his actions are futile because of extensive corruption on the police force. After realizing the depth of the corruption and the inevitability of his own murder, Wahyu shoots Tama in the head. He then attempts to shoot himself, but fails because he has run out of bullets. Andi gives Rama a list of corrupt officers that Tama had kept as insurance. Rama again asks Andi to come home, but he refuses, due to his acclimation to his lifestyle. Andi claims that he will always be able to protect Rama in his role as a criminal boss, but that Rama cannot do the same for him. He then orders the guards at the gate to allow the officers to leave and returns to the apartment, while Rama leaves with Bowo and a detained Wahyu.

