High_Road_to_China
Released Year: 1983
Running time: 105
Director: Brian G. Hutton
Cast: Tom Selleck,Bess Armstrong,Jack Weston,Wilford Brimley,Robert Morley,Brian Blessed,
Content: O'Malley (Tom Selleck) is a heavy-drinking, tough biplane pilot flying the skies of China for fun and profit when Eve (Bess Armstrong) seeks him out to help her find her father before he is declared dead and she loses an inheritance to the evil Bentik (Robert Morley). O'Malley does not really want Eve around, but adventure and the challenge beckon. If only their journey together had been sparked by a little excitement, clever humor, snappy dialogue, and seductive romantic chemistry, this bland film would be a different trip altogether. 
Wiki info: 
High Road to China is a 1983 adventure-romance film, set in the 1920s, starring Tom Selleck as a hard-drinking biplane pilot hired by society heiress Eve "Evie" Tozer (Bess Armstrong) to find her missing father (Wilford Brimley). The supporting cast includes Robert Morley and Brian Blessed. The Golden Harvest film (released by Warner Bros.) was directed by Brian G. Hutton, loosely based on a novel by Australian author Jon Cleary. The musical score was composed by John Barry. It was the 27th highest grossing film of 1983, bringing in $28,445,927 at the domestic box office.
Eve Tozer (Bess Armstrong) is a society heiress and flapper living the high-life in 1920s Istanbul. She needs to find her father (Wilford Brimley) before he is officially declared dead or risk losing her inheritance to his scheming business partner Bentik (Robert Morley). She hires WWI ace-pilot Patrick O'Malley (Tom Selleck) and his planes to locate her father. O'Malley is eager to take the job as he needs to leave town rather urgently himself. However, Eve, also an accomplished pilot, is determined to accompany him in his other aircraft, which causes the first of many arguments between Istanbul and China.
Their journey in two biplanes (named Dorothy and Lillian) through six countries leads them to finally find the eccentric Bradley Tozer in China, where he is helping a small village defend against a local warlord. O'Malley and Eve help them to win the final battle, however their one remaining plane is damaged in the process, leaving their immediate future actions uncertain.

