War_of_the_Arrows
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 123
Director: Kim Han-Min
Cast: Park Hae-il ,Moon Chae-won ,Kim Mu-yeol ,Ryoo Seung-ryong ,Park Ki-woong ,Ryohei Otani ,Kim Ku-taek ,Lee Han-wi ,Lee Kyeong-yeong ,Kang Eun-jin ,Lee Seung-jun ,Lee Jae-gu ,Park No-shik ,Lee Da-wit ,Jun Min-seo ,Yoon Dong-hwan ,
Content: A 17th Century Korean archer embarks on a treacherous mission to save his younger sister after she is kidnapped by Manchurian soldiers on her wedding day. The year is 1636. Ja-in (Moon Chae-Won) and her longtime love Seo-Goon are about to exchange their wedding vows as the armies of the Qing Dynasty begin attacking villages, and abducting Koreans. In the midst of the chaos, Ja-in is swept away. As the fighting intensifies, Ja-in's older brother Nam-Yi (The Host's Park Hae-il) realizes that the only way he will ever see his sister alive again is to take on the entire Qing Dynasty. Armed with only his bow and arrow, the brave warrior sets out on a mission to reunite his family, or die trying. A sweeping, historical action epic that proved a massive hit in Korea, War of the Arrows received four trophies at the 2011 Daejong Awards. 
Wiki info: 
War of the Arrows (Hangul: 최종병기 활; Hanja: 最終兵器 활; RR: Choejongbyeonggi Hwal; MR: Choechongp'yŏngki Hwal) is a 2011 South Korean historical action film starring Park Hae-il. Set after the Second Manchu invasion of Korea, the film is about an archer Choi Nam-yi who risks his life to save his sister from slavery under Prince Dorgon's rule.
The film was honored at the 48th Grand Bell Awards and the 32nd Blue Dragon Film Awards, including Best Actor for Park Hae-il and Best New Actress for Moon Chae-won.
The film's international title is Arrow: The Ultimate Weapon.
The film begins with two children Nam-yi and Ja-in being chased by King Injo's guards and saved by their father Choi Pyeong-ryung, an officer of King Gwanghae and a skilled archer. He sends his own children to find a place of refuge with his best friend Kim Mu-seon. As they escape crying, Ja-in begs her brother to go back to their father but their father is killed in front of Nam-yi. Nam-yi, though bitten by the guard dogs, kills them and escapes with Ja-in. Nam-yi becomes the only family Ja-in has. 13 years later Nam-yi (Park Hae-il) is now a skilled archer and hunter. He learns from Mu-seon's son Seo-goon (Kim Mu-yeol) that he and Ja-in (Moon Chae-won) plan to get married, with the approval of Mu-seon who is also Ja-in's godfather.
During the wedding, Nam-yi is up in the mountains hunting deer. He hears the rumble of the invading forces. When Nam-yi makes it back to the village, he finds his step-father slaughtered and his sister taken away. Nam-yi then sets out to find the Qing army and take out their army with his bow, killing a great many of them, including the prince. The great commander of the Qing army, Jyuushinta (Ryoo Seung-ryong) discovers the mysterious man trailing his men and taking them out one by one. Jyuushinta then sets out to find Nam-yi. Though Nam-yi is shot in the arm, he shoots back at Jyuushinta and one of his men who both fall. Nam-yi rides away to find Ja-in as he thinks that Jyuushinta is dead - but he isn't. Meanwhile Nam-yi finds Ja-in in a field. They are about to reunite when Ja-in sees Jyuushinta aiming at Nam-yi from a cliff. But before the arrow hits, Ja-in shoots the horse and Nam-yi falls. As Nam-yi and Jyuushinta face off, Ja-in runs in between them. Nam-yi's arrrow barely touches Ja-in's dress, but Jyuushinta's finds its mark. Despite Ja-in's protests, Nam-yi pulls it out and shoots Jyuushinta who falls to the ground, finally killed. Nam-yi falls down as well but Ja-in catches him in her lap. Nam-yi says that they should go back to their old home in Seoul. His eyelids then flutter and close—forever. Then Ja-in lays Nam-yi into a boat and she and Seo-goon set sail for Seoul, just as Nam-yi requested.

