The_Three_Musketeers
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 110
Director: Paul W.S. Anderson
Cast: Logan Lerman,Matthew Macfadyen,Ray Stevenson,Luke Evans,Milla Jovovich,Christoph Waltz,Mads Mikkelsen,Orlando Bloom,Gabriella Wilde,James Corden,Freddie Fox,Juno Temple,Til Schweiger,Carsten Norgaard,
Content: The young hero Dartagnan Logan Lerman and three of France's most elite warriors battle their way across Europe to save king and country from a conspiracy led by deadly assassin Milady Milla Jovovich & the Duke of Buckingham Orlando Bloom. A modern update to Alexander Dumas' classic story, The Three Musketeers is an explosive action adventure that's fun & entertaining for the whole family.See All The Three Musketeers Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 110&nbsp;mins
Wiki info: 
The Three Musketeers is a 2011 3D adventure film directed by Paul W. S. Anderson, based on the novel of the same title by Alexandre Dumas. The film stars Logan Lerman, Milla Jovovich, Matthew Macfadyen, Luke Evans, and Ray Stevenson. The Three Musketeers was released on 1 September 2011 for Germany, 12 October 2011 for the United Kingdom and France and 21 October 2011 for the United States, Canada and Australia. Critics gave it a negative reaction but the film achieved a positive box office result.
In Venice at the beginning of the 17th century, the Three Musketeers, Athos (Matthew Macfadyen), Porthos (Ray Stevenson), and Aramis (Luke Evans), with the help of Athos' longtime lover, Milady de Winter (Milla Jovovich), steal airship blueprints made by Leonardo da Vinci. However, they are betrayed by Milady, who gives the blueprints to the Duke of Buckingham (Orlando Bloom). Upon returning to France, the Musketeers are forced to disband by Cardinal Richelieu (Christoph Waltz) for their failure, and they end up on the streets of Paris
One year later, a young man named D'Artagnan (Logan Lerman) leaves his village in Gascony for Paris in hopes of becoming a Musketeer as his father was, only to learn that they no longer exist. At a rural bar, D'Artagnan accuses Captain Rochefort (Mads Mikkelsen), the leader of Richelieu's guard, of offending his horse, and challenges him to a duel. Rochefort shoots him while he is distracted but he is saved by Milady de Winter. Arriving in Paris, D'Artagnan by coincidence separately encounters Athos, Porthos and Aramis accidentally offending all three, then scheduling duels with each at 12:00, 1:00 and 2:00&#160;pm respectively.
Athos brings Porthos and Aramis to the duel as his seconds. D'Artagnan realises they are the Musketeers he is seeking. He is prepared to continue with the duel but Richelieu's guards break it up. The three are inspired by D'Artagnan and fight together and defeat the soldiers, but later are summoned before the young King Louis XIII (Freddie Fox) and his wife, Queen Anne (Juno Temple). Richelieu asks the king to execute the four, but the queen is impressed by their bravery and the king congratulates them and invites them to an event, which to Athos' anger, turns out to be Buckingham's arrival (who comes in an airship built following da Vinci's blueprints)
Later, Richelieu orders Milady, who is actually working for him, to plant false love letters among Queen Anne's possessions, steal Queen Anne's diamond necklace, and take it to the Tower of London to frame Queen Anne as having an affair with the Duke of Buckingham. The affair would force King Louis to execute Queen Anne and declare war on England. At this point, the people would demand a more experienced leader: Richelieu himself. But Milady demands that Richelieu declare in writing that she is working on behalf of France, to protect herself in case of palace intrigue.
The false letters (saying that the necklace has been given to Buckingham) are found by a maid and are given to King Louis and he is advised by Richelieu to set up a ball at which Queen Anne would be forced to wear the necklace. If she doesn't, then her affair is real, and there will be war against England. Queen Anne's lady-in-waiting Constance Bonacieux (Gabriella Wilde) discovers Richelieu's plan and asks the Musketeers to stop him. The Musketeers plan to sail to England and retrieve the jewels before the ball. However, at the dock, Rochefort sets up a blockade to prevent anybody from boarding the ships. Constance takes D'Artagnan's hat, cape and horse to create a diversion of the guards standing in front of the boat to allow the Musketeers to board without being detected.
In London, Milady warns Buckingham that the Musketeers have arrived to take revenge on him. Milady instructs Buckingham of all their tendencies in battle, but Athos predicts this and the Musketeers resolve to do just the opposite. Buckingham captures D'Artagnan, but he was a decoy to let the Musketeers steal the airship. The Musketeers rescue D'Artagnan, demolishing the top floor of the Tower in the process. Athos then reveals that Milady would have fled, taking the necklace with her as insurance. However, he had predicted this, and intercepts Milady's carriage. As retribution for betraying them, Athos prepares to execute Milady. However, to spare him the pain of having to kill her, Milady decides to leap off the airship, dying on her terms.
The Musketeers return to Paris with the necklace, but in the air near the city they are attacked by Rochefort in another airship, as Milady had given Richelieu copies of da Vinci's blueprints. Rochefort then reveals that he has Constance, and threatens to kill her if they don't hand over the necklace. D'Artagnan agrees to exchange the necklace for Constance, with whom he is infatuated, but Rochefort knocks him out and captures him as soon as the necklace is in his possession. Rochefort then proceeds to attack the Musketeers' ship, at first gaining the upper hand due to the superior weaponry and armor of his airship. However, the Musketeers lure Rochefort into a storm cloud, burst the balloon of airship and make the ship crash into the Notre Dame Cathedral. On the roof, D'Artagnan duels and stabs Rochefort, who falls to his death. Meanwhile, Constance returns the necklace to Queen Anne.
The Musketeers arrive at the ball in Buckingham's now burning airship. However, for the sake of King Louis and his people, they claim that Richelieu had it built for the king, but an attempt was made by Rochefort to sabotage it, also showing King Louis the authorization Richelieu had given Milady, pretending that it was given to them. The King then congratulates the Muskeeters, and thanks D'Artagnan, who he sees as his best friend, for everything. Richelieu, impressed by how the Musketeers handled the situation, offers them places in his employ, but they refuse. Richelieu threatens them by saying they will one day regret their choices, but they laugh him off. As Louis and Anne dance, D'Artagnan and Constance kiss. The Musketeers then leave, promising that they will protect France as Musketeers when they are needed.
At sea, Milady (who survived her fall) is rescued by Buckingham, who reveals that he knows that she was working for Richelieu and says that he is going to fight against France. The camera backs away and shows Buckingham advancing towards France's shore with a massive fleet of battleships and airships.

