Contraband
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 110
Director: Baltasar Kormákur
Cast: Mark Wahlberg,Kate Beckinsale,Ben Foster,Caleb Landry Jones,Giovanni Ribisi,Lukas Haas,J. K. Simmons,Diego Luna,Robert Wahlberg,Jaqueline Fleming,William Lucking,David O'Hara,
Content: A former smuggler from New Orleans faces ruthless drug lords, vicious criminals, corrupt officials, and trigger-happy hit men after getting back into the business to help his brother-in-law settle a deadly debt. When it came to transporting illicit goods under treacherous circumstances, Chris Farraday (Mark Wahlberg) used to be the best in the business. But all of that changed when he chose to give up his life of crime to start a family with Kate (Kate Beckinsale). Chris learns that leaving his past behind is easier said than done, however, after Kate's brother Andy (Caleb Landry Jones) goes to work for ferocious drug lord Tim Briggs (Giovanni Ribisi), and drops the ball on a major deal. Now, in order to set things right, Chris must smuggle millions of dollars in counterfeit bills from Panama into the United States. And if anything goes wrong, Tim will target his entire family for death. With his best friend Sebastian (Ben Foster) by his side and a crackerjack crew along for the ride, Chris heads to Panama for one last job. Later, with time running out and a treacherous maze of desperate criminals to navigate, the job gets complicated, and Chris must race to reach his family before Tim gets to them first. Lukas Haas, Diego Luna, and J.K. Simmons co-star. 
Wiki info: 
Contraband is an American action crime thriller film directed by Baltasar Kormákur, starring Mark Wahlberg and Kate Beckinsale. The film is a remake of the 2008 Icelandic film Reykjavík-Rotterdam that starred Kormákur. Contraband was released on January 13, 2012, in the United States, by Universal Pictures.
Chris Farraday (Mark Wahlberg) is an ex-smuggler who now has a peaceful life with his wife, Kate (Kate Beckinsale), and their two sons in New Orleans. They learn that Kate's brother Andy (Caleb Landry Jones) was smuggling drugs, but dropped them into the Mississippi River during a surprise inspection by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (C.B.P.).
Andy's boss, ruthless mobster Tim Briggs (Giovanni Ribisi), threatens to kill Chris' family if Andy doesn't pay $700,000. Chris decides to raise the money by running contraband, working with his best friend and former smuggling partner, Sebastian Abney (Ben Foster), who has also gone legitimate and now owns a construction company. He promises Kate that he will not run drugs, joining the crew of a cargo ship in order to buy $10,000,000 in fake bills in Panama and smuggle them into the U.S. He is joined by Andy, good friend Danny Raymer (Lukas Haas), and gets help from fellow crew mates. Briggs breaks into Chris' house to scare his wife and kids, so they move into Sebastian's house for safety.
In Panama, Chris discovers that the bills are of poor quality and refuses to accept them. The only one who can provide good ones is crime lord Gonzalo (Diego Luna). When Briggs calls Andy and threatens to kill one of Chris' sons, Andy takes Chris' money and uses it to buy the cocaine Andy wants. With the money gone, Gonzalo lets Chris and Danny help in a dangerous armored car heist as payment for the fake bills. They are successful in stealing a painting – little more than a paint splattered unframed tarp – in the heist, but Gonzalo and his men are killed, along with numerous police and security officers.
Chris and Danny make it back to the ship yard in a van containing the fake bills and the paint splattered tarp. They load the contraband-laden van into a container which is loaded onto their cargo ship. Chris assaults Andy for stealing the money and buying cocaine.
It is revealed that Sebastian has been working with Briggs, as gangster Jim Church (David O'Hara) threatens to kill Sebastian if he doesn't repay money he borrowed to save his fledgling construction business. When Sebastian calls Chris, Chris tells him that he might drop the drugs Andy bought into the ocean—angry that Andy had done the cocaine side deal. Sebastian tells Briggs, who assaults Kate and warns her to tell Chris to not dump the "package".
Kate calls Chris and tells him what Briggs said to her. Chris is surprised that Briggs knew about dumping the drugs, realizing that Sebastian had to have told him. Kate does not know and goes back to Sebastian's apartment to retrieve some personal items. When Sebastian tries to force himself on her, he accidentally bashes her head against a bathtub. Sebastian thinks she is dead and throws her (unconscious) body in a yet to be poured foundation.
Sebastian contacts the cargo ship's Captain Camp (J K Simmons), tells him that Chris is smuggling on his ship, and promises him a share if he makes sure Chris doesn't throw it overboard. When Chris does not give up the contraband, Camp calls the C.B.P. to meet the ship in New Orleans. The C.B.P. agents find the container with Chris' van, but the van is empty save for the paint splattered tarp.
Once Chris is on shore, Briggs and his thugs demand the drug package. Chris takes Briggs to Camp's house, having made a duplicate key while on the ship, and knowingly activates the security system. Chris opens Camp's personal carpet cleaner, which Camp had aboard the ship, and retrieves the cocaine from the carpet cleaner's water tank. While Briggs and his gang sit in Camp's living room with the cocaine, Chris sneaks out in Camp's car. Camp awakens to the noise and comes into the living room as the police arrive. Both Briggs and Camp are arrested, in possession of the cocaine.
Chris goes to Sebastian's construction site and brutally beats him, demanding Kate's location. When Sebastian tells Chris that she's dead, he tries calling her cellphone and hears the ringtone in a building foundation where cement is being poured and rescues her. Sebastian is arrested and sent to prison, where he has to answer to Chris's prisoner father.
Danny retrieves the fake bills, which we learn Chris had dumped into the Mississippi River before docking in New Orleans. Needing a vehicle to transport the bills, Andy buys the escape van, which the C.B.P. had confiscated from the cargo ship, at a C.B.P. auction. Church pays Chris $3 million for the fake currency and asks if he knows anything about a Jackson Pollock painting stolen from an armored car in Panama, telling him that it's worth $140 million and can be fenced for over $20 million on the black market. Chris, Andy and Danny find the painting – the nondescript paint splattered tarp – still in the van.
Following Chris and Andy's involvement in multiple killings, drug smuggling, trading in counterfeit currency, framing the ship's captain for a crime he did not commit, and selling a stolen art masterpiece, the film ends with Chris, Kate, Andy and the kids living a comfortable life in a waterfront house.

