Bunraku
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 125
Director: Guy Moshe
Cast: Josh Hartnett,Woody Harrelson,Gackt,Kevin McKidd,Ron Perlman,Demi Moore,Jordi Molla,Shun Sugata,Emily Kaiho,Mike Patton,
Content: A ragtag band of renegades takes on a master warrior and his private army in this stylish action thriller. In the wake of a global war, guns have been outlawed but violence is still the way for many, who now do battle with knives or their fists. Nicola (Ron Perlman), nicknamed The Woodcutter, is the most feared and powerful fighter on the East Coast, and he rules his empire with the help of a handful of similarly talented lieutenants, most notably Killer No. 2 (Kevin McKidd). One evening, The Drifter (Josh Hartnett) ambles into a bar in Nicola's village and announces he has a score to settle with the leader, and wants to know who's willing to help kill him. The Drifter's bold request catches the ear of Yoshi (Gackt), a swordsman from Japan who was also done wrong by Nicola and wants justice. Most believe the Drifter and Yoshi have signed their own death warrants by taking on the Woodcutter and his minions, but a few are eager to help them bring down the tyrannical Nicola, including the philosophical Bartender (Woody Harrelson), Alexandra (Demi Moore), a courtesan with an unpleasant history with the tyrant, and Yoshi's uncle (Shun Sugata) and cousin (Emily Kaiho). Written and directed by Israeli filmmaker Guy Moshe, Bunraku was an official selection at the 2010 Toronto International Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
Bunraku is a 2010 martial-arts action film written and directed by Guy Moshe based on a story by Boaz Davidson. The film stars Josh Hartnett, Demi Moore, Woody Harrelson, Ron Perlman, Kevin McKidd, and Gackt and follows a young drifter in his quest for revenge.
The title Bunraku is derived from a 400-year-old form of Japanese puppet theater, a style of storytelling that uses 4-foot (1.2&#160;m)-tall puppets with highly detailed heads, each operated by several puppeteers who blend into the background wearing black robes and hoods.
The classic tale is re-imagined in a world that mixes skewed reality with shadow-play fantasy. Its themes draw heavily on samurai and Western films.
Bunraku premiered as an official selection of the Midnight Madness section at the 2010 Toronto International Film Festival in Canada. A limited theatrical release was slated for September 2011.
In the aftermath of a global war, guns have been outlawed but people still fight, using blades and fists.
Nicola the Woodcutter (Ron Perlman) is the most powerful man east of the Atlantic, a shadowy crime boss who rules with an iron fist and nine assassins called the Killers. His right-hand man is Killer No. 2 (Kevin McKidd), a cold-hearted, smooth-talking murderer with a red hat and a deadly blade. Along with his killers is Nicola's love, Alexandra (Demi Moore), a femme fatale with a secret past. The citizens live in fear of this gang and wait for the hero who can overthrow them.
One night, a mysterious Drifter (Josh Hartnett) enters the Horseless Horseman Saloon and talks to the Bartender (Woody Harrelson). He wants two things: a shot of whisky and to kill Nicola. Soon, another stranger enters, a samurai named Yoshi (Gackt). Yoshi wants to avenge his father by recovering a talisman that Nicola stole from his clan. Armed with crossed destinies and incredible fighting skills and guided by the Bartender's wisdom, the two eventually join forces to bring down the corrupt reign of Nicola.
After a string of altercations which involve the Drifter and Yoshi injuring police officers and Nicola's goons, Killer No. 2 slays Yoshi's uncle (Shun Sugata) and kidnaps his cousin Momoko (Emily Kaiho) to send her to Nicola's brothel. In retaliation, the Drifter, Yoshi, the Bartender and an army of freedom fighters invade Nicola's palace. As the Bartender rescues Momoko, he sees his long-lost wife Alexandra, but she disappears amidst the debris of the burning brothel. Meanwhile, after defeating Nicola's top killers, Yoshi faces Killer No. 2 and fatally stabs him while the Drifter advances toward Nicola, who injures him in the chest with a tomahawk. Despite his injury, the Drifter slashes Nicola's throat with an arrowhead taken from Yoshi while revealing his true motive of avenging his father's death. With Nicola's reign brought to an end and Yoshi recovering his clan's medal, the heroes part ways, hoping to meet each other again.

