Bleach:_Fade_to_Black
Released Year: 2008
Running time: 90
Director: Noriyuke Abe
Cast: Laura Bailey - Homura,Brian Beacock - Yumichika Ayasegawa,J.B. Blanc - Sajin Komamura,Johnny Yong Bosch - Ichigo Kurosaki,Quinton Flynn - Kon,Bob Johnson - Genryusai Shigekuni Yamamoto,Wendee Lee - Yoruichi Shihoin,Doug Erholtz - Kisuke Urahara,David Lodge - Kenpachi Zaraki,Vic Mignogna - Ikkaku Madarame,Richard Cansino - Shizuku,Michelle Ruff - Rukia Kuchiki, Dark Rukia,Spike Spencer - Hanataro Yamada,Steve Staley - Shuhei Hisagi, Toshiro Hitsugaya,Terrence Stone - Mayuri Kurotsuchi,Wally Wingert - Renji Abarai,Dan Woren - Byakuya Kuchiki,
Content: At the outset of this anime - freely adapted from the popular manga of the same name - a violent particle explosion occurs at the Seireitei in Soul Society, destroying much of it at exactly the same moment that a massive transformation overtakes Kuchiki Rukia and causes her to leave something vital behind. Deeply concerned, Urahara Kisuke sends Kurosaki Ichigo into the heart of the society to investigate the disruption; once there he is promptly jumped by a group of ex-ally shinigamis, who now harbor absolutely no memory of Ichigo or Rukia. Ichigo thus finds himself on the run and desperate to find Rukia and identify the source of the said explosion. 
Wiki info: 
Bleach: Fade to Black (BLEACH Fade to Black 君の名を呼ぶ, Burīchi Fade to Black Kimi no Na o Yobu?, Bleach: Fade to Black, I Call Your Name) is the third animated film adaptation of the anime and manga series Bleach. Directed by Noriyuki Abe, the film was released December 13, 2008. The film's theme music was "Koyoi, Tsuki wa Miezu Tomo", performed by Porno Graffiti and its screenplay was written by Natsuko Takahashi, who is a screenwriter for the anime series. The DVD was released in September 30, 2009 in Japan, with additional footage of Ichigo, Rukia and Kon leaving for the World of the Living. The English Dub was released on DVD and Blu-ray on November 15, 2011 in the United States. The UK release date is set for May 28, 2012 on DVD and Blu-ray.
In Soul Society, Mayuri Kurotsuchi is attacked in his laboratory by a pair of mysterious siblings wielding a scythe that erases his memories. In a frightened panic, Kurotsuchi damages a machine, which causes a massive reiatsu explosion that covers much of Soul Society in a milky layer of reiatsu in the form of a giant rampaging river of serpents, killing and freezing many Soul Reapers, including Kenpachi Zaraki. Rukia Kuchiki is confronted and attacked by the siblings, erasing her memories and those of everybody that has memories of her, and is carried away to a rundown area of Rukongai by the siblings. Seemingly everyone in Soul Society has their memories of Rukia erased.
In the real world, Ichigo Kurosaki briefly forgets Rukia but in a dream recalls her. Troubled, he and Kon go to Kisuke Urahara for information. He tells Urahara of the situation, but he does not remember Rukia despite having her listed as a customer at his shop. Ichigo and Kon go to Soul Society, where they are attacked by people who they knew, including Shuhei Hisagi, Renji Abarai and Sajin Komamura, after Ichigo is forced to use his Hollow powers, but no one remembers Ichigo. While attempting to flee, he is struck by Komamura's Bankai. Ichigo is branded an intruder by the captains of the Gotei 13. Rukia finds herself in Rukongai with no memory of being a Soul Reaper. The nameless siblings, a sister and a brother, remind Rukia that they used to be close friends living in Rukongai and Rukia was to give them names, although she has forgotten them. Ichigo is healed of his injuries by Hanataro Yamada, who seems to have recalled healing him before. Ichigo then goes to Byakuya Kuchiki, Rukia's brother, for help, but he does not remember Rukia either. After a direct confrontation with Renji Abarai again, Byakuya directs Ichigo to his wife, Hisana Kuchiki's, birthplace in Rukongai, where they are briefly reunited with Rukia before the siblings flee with her from Ichigo and Kon.
Ichigo and Kon are attacked again by captain-class Soul Reapers Tōshirō Hitsugaya, Ikkaku Madarame and Yumichika Ayasegawa but are saved by Renji Abarai, who follows his gut instinct to trust Ichigo. Commander-Captain Shigekuni Yamamoto-Genryūsai and other captains arrive to capture Ichigo, but Urahara arrives dressed in his old uniform when he was a captain prior to his exile. He sends Ichigo, Renji and Kon off to save Rukia, and explains to the captains that he studied a parasitic Hollow which could erase memories with its scythe-like tentacle, but it escaped and appears to be influencing the siblings' actions to an extent. The siblings go to Kurotsuchi's lab in order to fully destroy the Soul Reapers with the reiatsu weapon they had used previously, under the belief that the Soul Reapers were responsible for taking Rukia away from them. Rukia objects to this, and Ichigo and Renji's arrival prompts Rukia to remember them. The female sibling succumbs to rage, and she forces herself, her brother and Rukia to all fuse into one, creating "Dark Rukia". Dark Rukia, seemingly hollowified, unleashes the reiatsu weapon upon Soul Society before battling Ichigo.
The reiatsu weapon takes the form of a giant, deformed monster, and the Soul Reapers fight against it, including Yoruichi Shihoin who had arrived with Urahara, and a freed Kenpachi. Ichigo fights Dark Rukia and holds back initially to refrain from injuring her. Byakuya arrives and claims that he should be the one to finish this, but Ichigo intervenes and manages to free her with his own similar reiatsu, destroying the Hollow, while Byakuya and Renji destroy the reiatsu monster. Rukia regains her memories, but the siblings are left mortally wounded, but are regretful for their actions. Urahara arrives and explains that the Hollow attacked Rukia and the siblings while controlling a Soul Reaper's body, but when the body was destroyed, the siblings trapped the Hollow in their bodies and were sent to Hueco Mundo for a time, managing to escape after a hundred years to reunite with Rukia because of their strong desire to be with her. Rukia tells the siblings their names, Homura and Shizuku, but the two die from their wounds, much to Rukia's despair.
The film ends with Ichigo visiting Rukia at the hill shrine where she previously visited before during the movie (the shrines were made in remembrance of her childhood friends who died during adolescence due to poverty), reminding her that her memories of the siblings will not fade. Kon, who was frozen during the climactic battle, breaks free and cries out to not be forgotten by everyone, especially Rukia.

