The_Package
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 95
Director: Jesse V. Johnson
Cast: Gene Hackman,Joanna Cassidy,Tommy Lee Jones,John Heard,Dennis Franz,Pam Grier,Reni Santoni,Ike Pappas,
Content: A Seattle enforcer finds himself on the run from hit-men, mercenaries, and cold-blooded killers while attempting to settle his brother's debt with a powerful mob boss by delivering a mysterious package to a ruthless international crime lord. When Tommy Wick (Steve Austin) isn't busting heads as a bouncer, he's doing the bidding of Big Doug (Eric Keenleyside) - the gangster with the entire city in his back pocket. Recently, Tommy's brother Eddie (Lochlyn Munroe) ran into some serious trouble with Big Doug. Now Big Doug needs Tommy to deliver an important package to The German (Dolph Lundgren), a formidable enemy from the henchman's past. Tommy accepts under the stipulation that once the job is done, his brother's debts will be cleared. Meanwhile, rival gangster Anthony (Michael Daingerfield) is determined to intercept the shipment before it's delivered. Later, when the bullets start to fly, Tommy faces an army of assassins as he prepares to get the job done, and settle an old score in the process. 
Wiki info: 
The Package is a 1989 political thriller film directed by Andrew Davis and starring Gene Hackman, Joanna Cassidy and Tommy Lee Jones. Set during the Cold War, the film portrays an assassination conspiracy within both the U.S. and Soviet militaries. The Americans and Soviets are about to sign a disarmament treaty to completely eliminate nuclear weapons, but elements within each country's military are vehemently opposed to such a plan and determined to stop it at all costs. Roger Ebert awarded the film three stars out of four, calling it " smarter than most thrillers".
Gene Hackman stars as Johnny Gallagher, a Special Forces Master Sergeant in the United States Army who is assigned to escort a prisoner, an Army deserter named Thomas Boyette (Tommy Lee Jones) from West Berlin back to the United States. When Boyette escapes, Gallagher pursues him and discovers that Boyette is actually a professional assassin hired to kill the leader of the Soviet Union after a meeting in Chicago with the president of the United States. Gallagher is joined by his ex-wife Eileen, a lieutenant colonel in the Judge Advocate General Corps of the US Army (Joanna Cassidy) and Chicago police Lt. Milan Delich (Dennis Franz).
The plot is actually very derivative of Frederick Forsyth's novel, Day of the Jackal (1971), describing a fictional attempt on French President Charles de Gaulle.

