The_Thieves
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 136
Director: Choi Dong-hun
Cast: Kim Yoon-seok ,Lee Jung-jae ,Kim Hye-soo ,Jeon Ji-hyun ,Kim Hae-sook ,Oh Dal-soo ,Kim Soo-hyun ,Simon Yam ,Angelica Lee ,Derek Tsang ,Ju Jin-mo ,Ki Gook-seo ,Choi Deok-mun ,Yeh Soo-jung ,Chae Gook-hee ,Shin Ha-kyun ,
Content: Two bands of thieves team up to steal a priceless diamond from a casino known for its cutting edge security, and find their meticulously planned heist going to pot due to a series of unexpected complications. Opportunistic thief Popie (Lee Jung-jae) and his gang have just pulled of a big job in South Korea when they decide to get out of the country until the heat blows over. Never one to rest on his laurels, Popie has another caper planned in Macao that rests on his willingness to reteam with the slippery Macao Park (Kim Yun-seok), a former associate who once betrayed him. With wire specialists Yenicall (Jeon Ji-hyun) and Zampano (Kim Soo-hyun), skillful swindler Chewingum (Kim Hae-sook), and expert lock picker Pepsee (Kim Hye-soo) by his side, Popie puts his differences with Macao aside in hopes of swiping the raer yellow diamond known as the "Tear of the Sun". Meanwhile, Macao's team includes the crass Andrew (Oh Dal-soo), suave veteran thief Chen (Simon Yam), focused point man Jonny (Derek Tsang), and Julie (Lee Sinje) - who never met a safe she couldn't crack. But when the day of the heist arrives, the professionals who left nothing to chance find their perfect plan snowballing into disaster, and a cool $20 million payday about to slip though their fingers. 
Wiki info: 
The Thieves (Hangul: 도둑들; RR: Dodukdeul; MR: Todukdŭl) is a 2012 South Korean heist film directed by Choi Dong-hun with an all-star ensemble cast.
Splashy action in overseas locations is mixed with double-dealings and multiple betrayals as a gang of South Korean thieves team up with a Hong Kong crew to steal a diamond necklace from a heavily-guarded casino safe in Macau.
With over 12.9 million ticket sales, the action comedy is currently the second highest grossing movie in Korean film history.
Posing as mother and daughter, two professional thieves - middle-aged alcoholic Chewing Gum (Kim Hae-sook) and trashy-sexy cat burglar Yanicall (Jun Ji-hyun) - rob the wealthy owner of Leesung Gallery (Shin Ha-kyun) of a rare artifact he bought from notorious Chinese fence Wei Hong (Ki Gook-seo). The theft is organized by team leader Popeye (Lee Jung-jae), helped by his associate Jampano (Kim Soo-hyun). The next day they are visited by a police detective (Ju Jin-mo) who is hot on Popeye's trail. Meanwhile, in Hong Kong Chinese veteran thief Chen (Simon Yam), along with Johnny (Derek Tsang) and Korean-Chinese Andrew (Oh Dal-soo), are busy robbing a jewelry shop. Afterwards, they're joined by Julie (Angelica Lee), the daughter of a professional safecracker. To escape the heat at home, the Koreans join Chen's gang in Hong Kong for a heist led by South Korean master thief Macau Park (Kim Yoon-seok), who was once Popeye's boss. Park's plan is to steal the Tear of the Sun diamond, worth US$20 million, which was stolen during an exhibition in Tokyo by Japanese thief Madame Tiffany (Yeh Soo-jung), mistress of Wei Hong, who is coming to sell it in Macau. Popeye has brought along safecracker Pepsi (Kim Hye-soo), just released on parole, but Park is unhappy with her joining the team, as they once had a relationship that ended badly four years ago. Park intends to sell the diamond back to Wei Hong for US$20 million - a risky venture as Wei Hong, whose face has rarely been seen, has a habit of murdering anyone who crosses him. Everyone in the team of thieves has a separate agenda and, when the robbery finally takes place in Macau, little goes according to plan.

