Blood_Money
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 108
Director: Gregory McQualter
Cast: Kunal Khemu,Amrita Puri,Manish Chaudhary,Mia Uyeda,Karan Mehra,
Content: A Shaolin master -turned-high-tech hit man finds himself caught up in a deadly feud between two of the world's most powerful crime syndicates, and fights for his life after being targeted for death by both. Zheng Zhou (Zheng Liu) hails from a lone line of feared Shaolin Warriors. His reputation is legendary, but his fate takes a dark turn after his parents are murdered, and his sister abducted. Subsequently drifting into a life of crime, Zheng is called on to rescue the kidnapped daughter of a high-ranking Dragon Triad gangster from a powerful Columbia cartel after a after a massive deal between the two gangs turns south. Armed with the latest weaponry and using ancient fighting skills, he launches a one-man war against the Columbian cartel in order to rescue the girl, and seize the drug shipment. Meanwhile, the two gangs call a truce, and team up to take out Zheng by whatever means necessary. Just when it looks as if all hope is lost, however, a Shaolin Monk from Zhao's distant past reappears, and gives him the tools to take control of his own fate. Gordon Liu and Pitbull co-star. 
Wiki info: 
Blood Money is a 2012 Bollywood crime thriller film directed by Vishal Mahadkar and produced by Mahesh Bhatt. The film stars Kunal Khemu opposite Amrita Puri in lead roles. It released on 30 March 2012, and received mostly positive response from critics. Blood Money managed to perform above average business at the box office. Many critics compared the film to the Blood Diamond (2006), The Firm (1993) and to Bhatt's earlier directorial film Naam (1986).
The story is about Kunal (Kunal Khemu) who believes he can do anything by trying his hardest. He receives a job offer in Cape Town and moves there with his wife Aarzoo (Amrita Puri). They live a happy life together, until Kunal's boss is revealed to be an underworld gangster. The company Kunal works in deals with exporting diamonds; Kunal has no idea that it happens illegally. His boss, Mr. Zakaria, sends his hot colleague Rosa to charm Kunal and take him away from his wife. The plan works, and Kunal begins to work with Zakaria, with Aarzoo having no idea of this. Soon enough, Kunal realizes the crime he is a part of and decides to and leave Cape Town. However, Zakaria knows that Kunal is aware of the illegal business and the only way to keep him silent is to kill him. Will Kunal survive? Will he escape with Aarzoo in time?

