Colombiana
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 111
Director: Olivier Megaton
Cast: Zoe Saldana,Amandla Stenberg,Michael Vartan,Cliff Curtis,Lennie James,Callum Blue,Beto Benites,Jordi Mollà,Graham McTavish,Max Martini,Ofelia Medina,Angel Garnica,Jesse Borrego,Cynthia Addai-Robinson,Sam Douglas,Doug Rao,Affif Ben Badra,Billy Slaughter,Nikea Gamby-Turner,Ariane Brodier,
Content: A woman becomes a professional killer in order to seek revenge against the ruthless gangster who murdered her parents in this action thriller from director Olivier Megaton and writerproducer Luc Besson. As a young girl, Cataleya (Zoe Saldana) saw her parents killed in cold blood. Now Cataleya is all grown up, and she's determined to settle the score. Going to work for her uncle, Cataleya methodically begins working her way up through the criminal underworld, taking out every criminal in her path on an obsessive quest to bury the man who single-handedly destroyed her life. 
Wiki info: 
Colombiana is a 2011 French-American action film co-written (with Robert Mark Kamen) and produced by Luc Besson and directed by Olivier Megaton. The film stars Zoe Saldana in the lead role with supporting roles done by Michael Vartan, Cliff Curtis, Lennie James, Callum Blue, and Jordi Mollà.
In 1992 little Cataleya (Amandla Stenberg) lives with her parents in Bogota, Colombia. Her father Fabio Restrepo (Jesse Borrego) is in possession of key information on drug lord Don Luis Sandoval (Beto Benites). When Don Luis learns about this, he sends his henchman Marco (Jordi Mollà) for Fabio. Marco kills Cataleya's parents but she manages to escape. She makes it to the U.S. Embassy and is sent to her uncle Emilio (Cliff Curtis) in Chicago. Once they meet, Cataleya asks him to train her as an assassin.
Fifteen years later Cataleya (Zoe Saldana) has become an accomplished assassin. Her uncle serves as her broker, providing her with contracts. Eventually she is assigned to kill the gangster Genarro Rizzo (Affif Ben Badra) who is currently in police custody. Following through on an elaborate plan she gets herself arrested and transferred to the same prison. The police mistakes her for a student who just drank too much. She manages to leave her cell and successfully kills Rizzo. Then she returns to her cell and the next morning she is released unsuspected.
As always she has left her signature, the Cattleya flower. Thus FBI Special Agent James Ross (Lennie James) can link this case to more than twenty other cases. As a last resort the FBI decides to inform the public about Cataleya's calling card. Cataleya's archenemy Don Luis, who is currently in a US-American witness protection program, concludes correctly that Fabio's daughter is in the US and orders his people to find her. Emilio is devastated when he learns she has a signature since she has hereby put her relatives in grave danger as well.
Cataleya's lover Danny Delaney (Michael Vartan) doesn't even know her real name. Admiring her beauty he snaps a picture of her while she is asleep. He then shows it to his best friend Ryan (Billy Slaughter) who forwards it his sister in law Shari (Nikea Gamby-Turner). From there it happens to reach Agent Ross who realizes that this is the alleged student who was in the same prison as Genarro Rizzo at the very night when he was killed.
Now the FBI traces her and supported by a SWAT team they try to fetch her. She manages to escape but in the meantime Don Luis has murdered her uncle Emilio and his family. Cataleya ambushes Ross in his home in order to gain information on Don Luis from him. Out of fear for his family's safety, agent Ross, decides to assist Cataleya by retrieving information for her on Don Luis's exact whereabouts, in New Orleans. Using heavy weaponry she manages to access his premises. She eliminates his guards and kills her father's murderer, Marco, in a fierce fight. Finally she eliminates Don Luis.
When her lover Danny is questioned by the FBI, he receives her phone call. She comes clean with him before she boards a bus headed for an unknown destination.

