Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Rodrick Rules is a realistic fiction novel by Jeff Kinney. It is the second book in the Diary of a Wimpy Kid series. The book follows Greg's struggle with getting along with his older brother, Rodrick. The sequel to the book is The Last Straw.
Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Rodrick Rules was based on the FunBrain.com version.  The hardcover was released on February 1, 2008. Diary of a Wimpy Kid was named New York Times bestseller among awards and praise. A film of the same name released March 25, 2011. The sequel to the film is Dog Days.
The book starts with Greg explaining how bad his summer vacations were with his brother Rodrick annoying him, who knows a secret that Greg is trying to keep. After Rodrick puts him in the back of his van and finds every speed bump in the town, he drops Greg off to school, but Greg finds out he still has the Cheese Touch from last year. He gets away with passing it on to a new kid. Later, it is clear that Greg and Rodrick are always broke, so Mom starts a "Mom Bucks" program. Rodrick, at first, mismanages the money on his Heavy Metal magazines, whilst Greg carefully manages the cash. Rodrick has an upcoming science project, and that he would prefer to do it on 'Gravity', but clearly shows no effort, and asks his family members to do it for him.
Rodrick later pretends to have the flu, and after Mom and Dad leave the house, he calls every friend he knows and has a party a month later, Greg notices Rowley has play money identical to that of "Mom Bucks" and takes it home to put under his mattress. When Greg fails to do his history homework, he must borrow an assignment from Rodrick and pay him $20,000 in Mom Bucks. Unfortunately, Mom finds out about the stolen Mom Bucks when Rodrick tries to cash in the lot and she confiscates all of Greg’s Mom Bucks, including his real ones.
After Thanksgiving, Rodrick's party is uncovered by a photo and he is grounded. Greg is accused of being an 'accomplice' to Rodrick, and is banned from playing video games, even though he had been locked in the basement the whole time and had nothing to do with the party. Rodrick then starts preparing for the talent show, despite his punishment (he wasn't allowed to leave the house). Dad then ends his punishment two weeks early because he hated listening to Rodrick's band, Löded Diaper, play every day. After Greg hurts Rowley by putting a dumbell in a pillow that Rowley kicks during a sleepover, Greg must perform in the talent show with a first-grader, Scotty Douglas, who Rowley was partners with. They don't qualify, but Rodrick's band does. Rodrick, eager to continue to the talent show, hands in his Gravity science project earlier, but then is forced to do it again, since his project lacked several requirements. Rodrick tries to tell the teacher clearly about it, but then the teacher claims that it was a fairly easy experiment and did not make clear sense.
Dad tries to persuade to Rodrick to give up the show, but Rodrick insists on doing it, so that he can send it to record label companies and bail out of school so he and Löded Diper can get noticed. During the talent show, Rodrick has his band's performance taped so he can send it to the record companies, but the video is rendered useless after it is found that Mom (who was taping the video) had talked the whole time and everything she said was heard on the tape. Rodrick accuses Greg and they get into a fight, but their parents send both to their rooms. Later, Rodrick has spilled the beans on what happened over the summer. Greg says that at Leisure Towers, the retirement house where their grandfather lives, Rodrick took Greg’s diary and made a run for it, but tripped on a board game. Greg grabbed the diary, ran to the toliet, and tried to destroy it. Unfortunately, he found out he’s in the ladies bathroom and is pulled out. However, Greg ends up getting popular for what he did because the story gets extremely twisted from going to the women's bathroom in the retirement home to invading the girls' locker room in Crossland High School.
The story ends with Greg helping Rodrick with his science project for school called Do Plants Sneeze?, because he feels sorry for the video of Löded Diper at the talent show which has been an worldwide internet hit due to his mom dancing in it.
Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Rodrick Rules is the second book in a seven book franchise. The third, The Last Straw was released January 13, 2009, has been on the list for 65 weeks (peaking at number 1). The fourth, Dog Days was released October 12, 2009. The book was peaking at #1 for all 25 weeks of publication, making Dog Days the #1 Best Selling Book of 2009. The fifth, The Ugly Truth was released November 9, 2010. The sixth, Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Cabin Fever was released November 15, 2011. The seventh, The Third Wheel was released on November 13, 2012.
Rodrick Rules has been on the sellers list for 117 as of April 4, 2010.
Brad Simpson stated he anticipated a sequel movie if the first film is a success. "Our writing staff are writing a sequel right now, "Rodrick Rules," which would be based on the second book" ... "And, you know, we hope that the people to see a second movie, so that we are in position of going again right away and making another film. I certainly know that the fans would like to see all the books made into movies".
Fox 2000 greenlit the sequel and Zachary Gordon returned as Greg Heffley. Steve Zahn (Frank Heffley) and Rachael Harris (Susan Heffley) will also return. The film was directed by David Bowers and the screenplay was written by Gabe Sachs and Jeff Judah. Principal photography began in Vancouver August 2010. A few new characters appeared in the film, including Peyton List as Holly Hills. The trailer was seen with Gulliver's Travels.
The website created for the first was updated for the sequel featuring pictures of the cast and a short synopsis of the film. The film was released on March 25, 2011.
Astro Boy director David Bowers helms the follow-up film to 2010's big-screen adaptation of Jeff Kinney's acclaimed Diary of a Wimpy Kid comic novels in this Fox 2000 production. As Greg Heffley (Zachary Gordon) braves his first days of seventh grade, his parents (Steve Zahn and Rachael Harris) make a noble yet ill-advised attempt to help him forge a stronger bond with his mischievous older brother, Rodrick (Devon Bostick), who takes twisted delight in tormenting his unsuspecting younger sibling at every opportunity. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Rodrick Rules Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 99&nbsp;mins
