Little Big Soldier (simplified Chinese: 大兵小将; traditional Chinese: 大兵小將; Mandarin Pinyin: Dà Bīng Xiǎo Jiàng; Jyutping: Daai6 Bing1 Siu2 Zeong1) is a 2010 action comedy film directed by Ding Sheng and produced and written by Jackie Chan, also starring Chan and Leehom Wang. The film was produced with a budget of US$25 million and filmed between January 2009 and April 2009 in filming spots of Yunnan, China. According to Chan, the film has been stuck in development hell for over 20 years.
Little Big Soldier takes place during the Warring States Period of China, and tells the story of three men and a horse. An old foot soldier (Chan) and a young high-ranking general from a rival state (Wang) become the only survivors of a ruthless battle. The soldier decides to kidnap the general and brings him back to his own state in hopes for a reward in return.
On December 1, 2009, a press conference was held for the film, along with Chan's announcement of a new teaser trailer posted on the film's official Sina website. Twitch also released a plot synopsis of the film:
The battalions of warring states Liang and Wei collided in a bloodbath that lasted from dawn until dusk. Only two men were left standing – a foot soldier from Liang and the rival General from Wei. The Soldier survived because he is an expert in playing dead, with a device strapped on his body which protruded like an arrowhead for added realism.
The Soldier captured the wounded General, hoping to use the enemy as his ticket to freedom – by handing the General to the Liang warlord, the Soldier could be honorably discharged and return home to his peaceful life. The young General, though taken captive, was condescending towards the Soldier. The two men were often at loggerheads during the long and winding journey.
Yes Wu actor noob
Little Big Soldier was a joint production of China's Polybona Films and Hong Kong's JCE Movies Limited, a company set up by Jackie Chan in 2003. The film is notable to have been in production for over 20 years. Chan had wanted to perform in and write a comedic film that took place in a historical background since the 1980s, when Hong Kong action cinema was rising in prominence.
Chan originally had Daniel Wu in mind to play the part of the young general, but Chan disregarded that thought after realising that he had already filmed two movies earlier with Wu. Joan Lin, Chan's wife, suggested their son Jaycee Chan, but Chan was highly against it. Lin later suggested Leehom Wang, whom Chan agreed to immediately.
At a conference in Beijing on November 20, 2009, Jackie Chan announced, along with Universal Culture Limited and EURO WEBSOFT, that an MMO is being released to promote the film. Chan and Wang's characters in the game were also shown at the conference. On January 26, 2010, the MMO went online under the name FLASH Little Big Soldier (Chinese: FLASH大兵小將). It is free to play under an account subscription. However, the game is available only in Chinese.
Two rivals strike up a wary friendship in this blend of historical drama, action and comedy starring international martial arts star Jackie Chan. It's 227 B.C., and during the era of the warring states, a fifty-something Liang soldier (Jackie Chan) captures a wounded Wei general (Wang Leehom) in the wake of a battle. The soldier's goal in taking the general prisoner isn't glory but the hope of collecting a reward so he can buy some land and start a farm once then fighting is over. The general, however, is vain and arrogant and insists he was taken captive only after his own men turned against them. As the two men slowly make their way back to Liang territory, they're followed by a duplicitous Wei prince (Steve Yoo) who has his own reasons for wanting the general back, as well as villains and scoundrels on both sides. While the soldier and the general don't get along at first, in time a grudging admiration grows between them as the general comes to appreciate the decency and good nature of his captor. Da Bing Xiao Jiang (aka Little Big Soldier) was an official selection at the 2010 Berlin International Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All Little Big Soldier Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 92&nbsp;mins
