Dorothy and the Witches of Oz is a 2012 feature film directed by Leigh Scott, based on the novels The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, Ozma of Oz, The Road to Oz, and The Magic of Oz by L. Frank Baum. The film was originally released as a mini-series, The Witches of Oz, distributed by Marvista Entertainment.
Development of the film began while director Leigh Scott was making direct-to-video films for The Asylum. Production began in December 2009 and filming took place throughout Connecticut and New York, New York.
Dorothy and the Witches of Oz follows the exploits of the grown Dorothy Gale, now a successful children's book author, as she moves from Kansas to present day New York City. Dorothy quickly learns that her popular books are based on repressed childhood memories, and that the wonders of Oz are very, very real. When the Wicked Witch of the West shows up in Times Square, Dorothy must find the inner courage to stop her.
Dorothy and the Witches of Oz was released theatrically in the United States on February 17, 2012. The film opened in select AMC Theatres, Harkins Theatres, Rave Motion Pictures, and Marcus Theatres venues in Arizona, Kentucky, Kansas, Wisconsin, Nebraska, Iowa, and Illinois. The film was then shown at film festivals and exclusive events in New York, Kentucky, California, Virginia, Missouri, Pennsylvania, and North Carolina throughout the course of the year.
The original version of the film, The Witches of Oz, was released on home video in the United States on April 10, 2012. No plans for a home video release of Dorothy and the Witches of Oz have been announced.
Despite an overall negative response from critics and audiences to the original version of the film, Dorothy and the Witches of Oz received generally mixed reviews during its theatrical run. Bob Fischbach of the Omaha World-Herald praised the film for its contemporary twist on the story, but stated that it was "cheesy, but fun for family." Patrick Luce of Monsters & Critics gave the film a highly positive review, and stated that "hopefully this won't be the only trip to Oz we'll get to take".
The soundtrack to the film, composed by Eliza Swenson, was released on iTunes, and then on a soundtrack CD in February 2012.
A grown-up Dorothy Gale finds herself once again pitted against The Wicked Witch of the West in this fantasy adventure inspired by author L. Frank Baum's cherished tales of Oz. A respected author of children's books, Dorothy (Paulie Rojas) gleans her inspiration from the fantastic yarns spun by her grandfather when she was just a little girl. Upon receiving a handsome offer from a prominent New York publisher, Dorothy packs her bags and prepares for the adventure of a lifetime. Shortly after arriving in the city, however, Dorothy's dormant memories of her own trip to Oz come rushing back, and she realizes that her childhood nemesis The Wicked Witch of the West has hatched a plan to cross into our reality. Should she succeed, it would certainly spell doom for the entire world. But with the help of her old friends, Dorothy might just have the power to save mankind from the vengeful enchantress' wrath. Sean Astin, Ethan Embry, Lance Henriksen, Christopher Lloyd, and Jeffrey Combs star. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Witches of Oz Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 164&nbsp;mins
