Recoil is a 2012 Canadian direct-to-video action film starring "Stone Cold" Steve Austin and Danny Trejo, directed by Terry Miles and written by John Sullivan. this movie is about A cop turns vigilante after his family is murdered, exacting vengeance on the killers - and then on all criminals who have slipped through the system.
Ryan Varrett travels to the town Hope. First he comes across Dale James Burrows hunting in the woods. He tells Burrows to remember Mary Anne DaRosa before he dies, before tossing him down the cliff, killing him. In a flashback Varrett is ambushed by thugs in clown masks who kill his family. When he arrives at Hope he meets Kirby and buys a gun before going to the motel where he meets Darcy. He comes across Prospect who is pointing a gun at a stray dog, but is intercepted by Varrett. After being knocked to the ground Prospect is saved by Salgado and his men, who all walk away. Later Rex, Drayke's brother goes to the Motel and attacks Darcy, before Varrett comes and throws Rex against a wall, knocking him unconscious. Varrett then ties Rex to the bonnet of his car and sends the car hurtling into a building, killing Rex. Deputy Hedge and his father arrive at the scene. Drayke says it was no accident. Drayke then takes Kirby to the boat to find out what happened. Crab, a sergeant at arms puts a knife in Kirby's hand and closes it, injuring Kirby. Vans are eventually sent to deliver meth to Drayke. One brakes down on the highway and the driver calls for help. Varrett emerges from behind and frightens the driver away before opening the truck and identifying the contents. He then burns the truck. Drayke is informed and told that it was not the cops. Kirby eventually looks at Varrett's car, before Varrett arrives. Soon Crab arrives and engages in a fight with Varrett, before his fingers get broken. Crab leaves after being told to by Varrett. Later in the evening Drayke and his men apprehend Kirby again. The following day Kirby is killed and hung from a pick-up truck. Varrett and Darcy arrive at the scene and Darcy attempts to take Hedge's gun, but Varrett drives off. Varrett enters a bar and a fight ensues between Drayke's men. He subdues Crab and puts him in the boot of his car. He then stops outside Drayke's hideout, sets Crab on fire and drives off, leaving Crab to die. Drayke, enraged at Crab's death tells Prospect to kill everyone. Varrett later has a flashback again of his family's death, and at the cemetery where a detective assures him that those responsible for the killings will pay. Varrett, sat in his car enters a bar and kills several of Drayke's men. He then goes to the Motel to see Darcy. Three of Drayke's men arrive but Varrett and Darcy kill them. As they leave outside Varrett is knocked to the ground with a crowbar, while Prospect and the rest of Drayke's men take Darcy away. Varrett is later tied up at Drayke's office. Drayke admits that Rex is sick but he is family and that he should have watched over him. Darcy is then taken away. Drayke leaves and Prospect comes to deal with Varrett, hitting him while he is defenceless. Eventually Varrett breaks free of his ties and knocks Prospect to the ground. He stabs Prospect with a knife he was carrying before freeing Darcy and taking out the rest of Drayke's men. He finally comes across Drayke among a shipment of meth and guns. During the final battle Drayke and Varrett fight till Drayke is subdued. As Varrett walks away Drayke comes back, almost striking Varrett down with a machete but is shot dead by Hedge. Frank Sutton tells Varrett he understands that he only takes out bad guys, but is worried that eventually Darcy will get hurt. Varrett says goodbye to Darcy and drives off into the sunset.
Steve Austin - Ryan Varrett
Danny Trejo - Drake Salgado
Serinda Swan - Darcy
Keith Jardine - Crab
Lochlyn Munro - Agent Frank Sutton
Noel Gugliemi - Rex Salgado
Adam Greydon Reid - Deputy Hedge
In 2012, a Canadian judge ruled in favour of Recoil's production company, NGN Prima Production, and ordered internet service providers to reveal the names and addresses of people who had allegedly downloaded the film illegally. This was only recently made possible due to changes in Canadian law, making it the first lawsuit of its kind in the country. Further developments include one of the involved internet service providers filing the motion opposing disclosure of the customers information.

Steve Auston and Danny Trejo star in this thriller concerning a cop who becomes a ruthless vigilante after his family is gunned down by a gang of vicious criminals. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Recoil Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 94&nbsp;mins
