The Assassins, previously known as Bronze Sparrow Terrace or Bronze Sparrow Platform, is a Chinese historical drama film directed by Zhao Linshan, starring Chow Yun-fat as Cao Cao, a prominent warlord who became the de facto head of government in China towards the end of the Han Dynasty. The film, released in October 2012, focuses on Cao Cao's life in his later years. The supporting cast includes Liu Yifei, Hiroshi Tamaki, Alec Su, Yao Lu and Ni Dahong. The film's Chinese title is a reference to the Bronze Sparrow Platform (铜雀台), a terrace constructed in 210 by Cao Cao in the ancient city of Ye.
The film is set in China between the late 190s and 200s towards the end of the Han Dynasty. Cao Cao had defeated Lü Bu and many other rival warlords to gain supremacy in northern China. In 216, Cao Cao is granted the title of a vassal king - King of Wei - by Emperor Xian. He then constructs the Bronze Sparrow Platform as a display of his power.
Lingju is the orphaned daughter of Lü Bu and Diaochan, and she, like many other orphaned children of Cao Cao's enemies, had been recruited in her childhood by Cao Cao's rivals to be trained as assassins to kill Cao Cao. She meets Mu Shun, who protects her while she is in training and falls in love with him. Mu Shun is castrated at one point. Lingju and Mu Shun both eventually find their way into court life: Lingju is taken by Cao Cao as one of his mistresses while Mu Shun becomes a eunuch in the palace.
Throughout the film, there are two major attempts on Cao Cao's life. The first is masterminded by Empress Fu Shou and her father Fu Wan. This plan fails and Cao Cao has the conspirators (including the empress) executed in front of Emperor Xian. The second is a revolt led by the imperial physician Ji Ben and his supporters, but the rebellion is swiftly crushed. There is a brief scene showing that Cao Cao suspects that his son Cao Pi is involved in the assassination plots.
Mu Shun fails in his attempt to kill Cao Cao, who reveals that he knew all along that Lingju is planning to assassinate him. Cao Cao promises to spare Lingju's life, and in return, Mu Shun disguises himself as Cao Cao and rides out of the city, only to be killed by Ji Ben's followers. Lingju later commits suicide to join Mu Shun.
The emperor of a crumbling Han Kingdom hatches an assassination plot that seems to have been foretold in an ancient prophecy in this sweeping historical epic starring Chow Yun Fat. The time is the Three Kingdoms period. As Emperor Xian's infatuation with the arts distracts him from being a powerful leader, aging Han Dynasty warlord Cao Cao (Yun-Fat) fights to maintain their empire's might. When rumors of Cao Cao's ruling ambitions begin to swirl, Emperor Xian sets into motion a plan to have the powerful warrior eliminated. According to an ancient prophecy, a new dynasty will emerge from the ashes of the old one when the four elementals begin to align. Now, in the year 221 A.D., Cao Cao finds himself beset by his enemies. The children of his fallen rivals have been shaped into assassins by a mysterious figure, and now, with the four stars rising in the sky above Bronze Sparrow Tower, the powerful Cao Cao prepares to make his last stand. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 103&nbsp;mins
