Catch .44 is a 2011 American action drama film starring Forest Whitaker, Bruce Willis, Malin Åkerman, Nikki Reed, Deborah Ann Woll and Brad Dourif. The film is written and directed by Aaron Harvey.
Three women, Tes, Dawn and Kara, work for Mel, a drug boss. Mel tells them to intercept a truck driver bringing rival drugs to a diner at night. The women wait for the driver at the diner, but when they fail to see the driver, they draw guns on the staff and customers of the diner and demand to know if anyone knows who the driver is. A shootout ends in a standoff between Tes and Billy, the cook, who also works for Mel. Soon, Ronny, another associate of Mel, enters the diner. Billy recognizes Ronny and fears he was sent to kill him. The standoff ends with more gunshots, after which Mel arrives at the diner and finds Ronny alive. Mel shoots Ronny but Tes, who is also alive, shoots Mel and escapes.
Shooting started on July 8, 2010 in Louisiana, and lasted 20 days.
Early on, there were several changes to the cast, particularly within the female lead roles. Maggie Grace was originally attached to play Tes, and Lauren German was attached to play Kara, however both women had to drop out due to scheduling conflicts. Laura Ramsey was also considered for the role of Dawn.
After Malin Åkerman signed on to play Tes, Bruce Willis and Forest Whitaker were attached to the film. Lizzy Caplan and Kate Mara were then brought on as Dawn and Kara, respectively. However, a few days later, Caplan was replaced with Deborah Ann Woll for the role of Dawn. Mara dropped out the movie as well, due to scheduling conflicts, and was replaced by Nikki Reed, thus completing the cast.
The film features art by Dallas-based artist Elisa Guardiola.
The rights to Catch .44 were picked up by Anchor Bay Films. Independent film producer Cassian Elwes brokered the deal.
Three ruthless female outlaws scheme to intercept a lucrative drug shipment for a notorious crime boss, and get drawn into a dangerous series of double crosses. Tes (Malin Akerman), Kara (Nikki Reed) and Tara (Deborah Ann Woll) are the kind of criminals who always get the job done. But when their boss Mel (Bruce Willis) dispatches them on a dangerous mission, a quiet diner becomes the scene of a tense confrontation. Shea Whigham and Brad Dourif co-star. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Catch .44 Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 94&nbsp;mins
