High Risk (simplified Chinese: 鼠胆龙威; traditional Chinese: 鼠膽龍威, also known in the United States as Meltdown) is a 1995 Hong Kong martial arts action comedy film written, produced and directed by Wong Jing, and starring Jet Li, Jacky Cheung, Chingmy Yau, Charlie Yeung, Billy Chow, Kelvin Wong and Valerie Chow. Corey Yuen serves as the film's fight choreographer. This was Kelvin Wong's final film appearance, who has retired from acting, until his death in 15 years.
The film is a parody of some of Hollywood's most influential action films, such as Die Hard and Speed. It also gained controversy for spoofing Jackie Chan, who was, in turn, offended by the satire.
Meltdown is the title given to this film in the United States by Columbia TriStar Home Video (now known as Sony Pictures Home Entertainment).
Police officer Kit (Jet Li) leaves his job after his family is killed by a terrorist named The Doctor. Kit becomes a bodyguard for movie star Frankie (Jacky Cheung) who is reported to perform his own stunts. The report is untrue; Frankie is a drunken womanizer incapable of performing the stunts, and Kit performs them for him. Frankie attends a gala event in a high-rise hotel where The Doctor shows up and takes everyone hostage. Kit has an opportunity to face his family's killer and save Frankie and the rest of the hostages.
Theme song "High Risk"
The film grossed a modest HK $11,403,790 in Hong Kong, where it was released as 鼠胆龍威 (High Risk, Rat's bravery and Dragon's might), which parodies the title of Die Hard (虎膽龍威 Tiger's bravery and Dragon's might) in Hong Kong.
The movie takes a cinematic swipe at Jackie Chan, with whom director Wong Jing had worked previously on the City Hunter live-action film. After the release of City Hunter, Chan not only disowned the film, but attacked Wong personally in the press. Through the character of Frankie Lone, Wong insinuating that Chan was actually a boozing womanizer and a fraud who did not really do his own stunts after all.
When FBI Special Agent John Thomas (Christopher J. Martin) has his cover blown while infiltrating a ruthless crime syndicate, he gets caught in the crosshairs of Crazy Eddie (Robert Z'Dar) while attempting to outrun relentless FBI Agent Winslow (Joe Estevez). With ever move Agent Thomas makes the stakes get higher, but perhaps with the help of a renegade agent (Andrea Tice) who knows the truth, he'll live to see another day. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 90&nbsp;mins
