After the fall of Communism, criminals from the USA flooded into Eastern Europe where they established a crime syndicate in a land where authorities were powerless and the laws were replaced by the crime. Dealers of weapons and drugs have turned Prague into their headquarters where they could make millions of dollars by selling weapons to various gangs.
Ray Carver (Cuba Gooding Jr.) is an assassin who works for two rival mafia families. After Carver fails to assassinate Demyan Ivanov (Louis Mandylor), one of the crime bosses he frequently works for, he decided to kill the brother of the other crime boss, Mikhail Suverov. Mikhail is angry and wants to kill Ray Carver to avenge his brother's death, so he calls Alexei "The Wolf" Andreev (Dolph Lundgren), a legendary Russian hitman who is rumoured to be fictional. Alexei is out for Carver, but soon they both realize that they're in the middle of a huge gang war. So they decide to team up and kill every member of the mafia in the Prague's criminal underworld.
Billy Murray was confirmed to have joined the cast on July 4, 2011. The trailer for the film was released on June 27, 2012. The first clip from the film was released on July 23, 2012.
The film received mildly positive reviews. Movie Ramblings said "One In The Chamber is a perfectly serviceable thriller – just don’t expect too much." Very Aware said "It’s certainly not the worst thing you’ll ever put in your blu-ray player, but put it in your blu-ray player you should." The Other View said "At best, give it a rental before you buy, but I think it’s worth it." We've Got This Covered said "is a good example of how to make a good straight-to-DVD film."
Cuba Gooding, Jr. and Dolph Lundgren star as two dueling assassins who turn the streets of Prague into a warzone when one of them goes to work for a gang he had previously targeted for death, and the other is hired to take him out at all costs. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All One in the Chamber Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 91&nbsp;mins
