Blood Money is a 2012 Bollywood crime thriller film directed by Vishal Mahadkar and produced by Mahesh Bhatt. The film stars Kunal Khemu opposite Amrita Puri in lead roles. It released on 30 March 2012, and received mostly positive response from critics. Blood Money managed to perform above average business at the box office. Many critics compared the film to the Blood Diamond (2006), The Firm (1993) and to Bhatt's earlier directorial film Naam (1986).
The story is about Kunal (Kunal Khemu) who believes he can do anything by trying his hardest. He receives a job offer in Cape Town and moves there with his wife Aarzoo (Amrita Puri). They live a happy life together, until Kunal's boss is revealed to be an underworld gangster. The company Kunal works in deals with exporting diamonds; Kunal has no idea that it happens illegally. His boss, Mr. Zakaria, sends his hot colleague Rosa to charm Kunal and take him away from his wife. The plan works, and Kunal begins to work with Zakaria, with Aarzoo having no idea of this. Soon enough, Kunal realizes the crime he is a part of and decides to and leave Cape Town. However, Zakaria knows that Kunal is aware of the illegal business and the only way to keep him silent is to kill him. Will Kunal survive? Will he escape with Aarzoo in time?
The film was earlier titled Kalyug 2 and was to be a sequel to 2005's Kalyug. Director Vishal Mahadkar did not appreciate the title and changed it to Jannat 2, making it a sequel to the 2008 hit Jannat. When the public's feedback to this title turned out to be even more negative, it was finally renamed to Blood Money.
Blood Money received mixed to positive response from critics. Jeeturaaj of radio mirchi gave it 3.5/5 stars saying "interesting insight into diamond trade and brilliant songs". Martin D'souza of glamsham.com said "There are a few flaws, but I'd rather not dwell on those because the overall impact is massive" awarding it 3.5/5 stars. Madhureeta Mukherjee of Times of India said "Debutant director, (Vishal S Mahadkar), tells the story well".
Sukanya Verma of Rediff.com gave it 1/5 stars and wrote "Blood Money is exceptionally hollow in its aspirations". Writing for FilmiTadka, Janhavi Patel gave the film 2.5 out of 5 stars and said, "Blood Money starts off decently but goes downhill in the second half with a laughable climax. Spend your money elsewhere". Blessy Chettiar of DNA awarded 2 out of 5 stars and said, "Wait for Blood Money’s television premier. Or else, watch the trailer. Why waste 2.5 hours on something you can watch in 2.05 minutes?"
The film had an average opening at the box office. Usually, Vishesh Films' collections are a net gross of about Rs.25 crores: Blood Money collected a full 9 crore in its full theatrical run, which is a very high and profitable gross for the Bhatt's nevertheless it was declared an above average by Box Office India.
Blood Money's soundtrack was released on February 19, 2012. It was composed by Jeet Ganguly, Pranay, Sangeet Haldipur and Siddharth Haldipur; lyrics were penned by Sayeed Quadri, Kumaar.
The album received positive reviews from critics. Joginder Tuteja from Bollywood Hungama gave the album a 3.5/5 stars picking "Teri Yaadon Se (remix)", "Gunaah (unplugged)" and "Chaahat" as his favorites. Musicaloud gave the album 3/5 stars picking "Chaahat" and "Gunaah" as their favourites. Times of India states that "Blood Money, like all previous Bhatt films, has some great music that will help take the movie to a different level altogether".
A Shaolin master -turned-high-tech hit man finds himself caught up in a deadly feud between two of the world's most powerful crime syndicates, and fights for his life after being targeted for death by both. Zheng Zhou (Zheng Liu) hails from a lone line of feared Shaolin Warriors. His reputation is legendary, but his fate takes a dark turn after his parents are murdered, and his sister abducted. Subsequently drifting into a life of crime, Zheng is called on to rescue the kidnapped daughter of a high-ranking Dragon Triad gangster from a powerful Columbia cartel after a after a massive deal between the two gangs turns south. Armed with the latest weaponry and using ancient fighting skills, he launches a one-man war against the Columbian cartel in order to rescue the girl, and seize the drug shipment. Meanwhile, the two gangs call a truce, and team up to take out Zheng by whatever means necessary. Just when it looks as if all hope is lost, however, a Shaolin Monk from Zhao's distant past reappears, and gives him the tools to take control of his own fate. Gordon Liu and Pitbull co-star. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 108&nbsp;mins
