Mad Monkey Kung Fu is a 1979 Shaw Brothers kung fu film directed by Lau Kar-leung. Later, the film is release on DVD in Dragon Dynasty.
Kung fu master Chen (Lau Kar-leung) is tricked and his hands crippled by the villainous gangster and brothel-keeper Tuen (Lo Lieh), who also forces his sister (Kara Hui) into prostitution. No longer able to practice the martial arts, he becomes a lowly street entertainer, performing with his beloved trained monkey Ah Mao. Monkey (Hsiao Ho) is a petty thief and meets Chen and the two begin an odd friendly relationship until Tuen's men slaughter Chens pet monkey, causing Little Monkey (Hsiao Hou) to try and take revenge for him. Monkey is trained by Master Chen and believes he is strong enough and leaves Master Chen. He goes into the streets and fights Tuen's money collectors. He easily defeats them all and soon he is led to Tuen. Monkey confronts Tuen initially and gets beat, Miss Chen helps Monkey escape but is killed by Tuen, forcing Chen to take revenge for his sister. Monkey returns to Master Chen shamefully and tells Chen about the meeting with his sister. Chen gets angry and goes to fight Tuen but Monkey reminds him that his hands are crippled and the Monkey Fist won't be as effective. Chen, reluctantly, agrees and trains Monkey more and then Monkey comes back to the brothel to fight Tuen again. He gets pass all the men but gets trapped. Chen appears and saves him and they fight side by side. After that, Monkey engages combat with Tuen and soon gets the advantage. Tuen, seeing that he can't win tries to escape but Monkey doesn't let him and takes his hands. He smashes them into glass to cripple them, the same as what Tuen did to Chen. After that, it seems Monkey is done but then he says he also wants to avenge Chen's sister and kills Tuen.

Lau Kar-leung spins this high-flying kung-fu saga about a Peking opera actor named Chen (played by the director), who, along with his beautiful sister (Kara Hui Ying-hung), is invited to dine with the dastardly and powerful Mr. Tuan (Lo Lieh). There Chen is slipped a mickey and when he comes to is accused of trying to rape Tuan's wife. Tuan offers to spare Chen's life if his sister becomes his concubine. The dealt is struck and Chen is cast into the street after getting his hands smashed by Tuan's henchmen. Years later, we find Chen struggling as a street performer with a trained monkey named Ah Mo. When Chen runs afoul of some gangsters, they kill his monkey. Just before Chen decides to snuff his own candle, he realizes that energetic street urchin known as Monkey (Hsiao Ho) would make a decent substitute for his former simian partner. After the two again run afoul of the same gangsters, Chen vows to teach Monkey kung-fu and soon thwarts the thugs. Later, he along with Monkey decides to take on Tuan and break his sibling out of sexual bondage. ~ Jonathan Crow, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 115&nbsp;mins
