Bodyguards and Assassins is a 2009 Hong Kong film directed by Teddy Chan, featuring an all-star cast, including Donnie Yen, Nicholas Tse, Tony Leung Ka-fai, Leon Lai, Wang Xueqi, Simon Yam, Hu Jun, Eric Tsang, Cung Le and Fan Bingbing.
In 1905, Sun Wen intends to go abroad to Hong Kong, a British colony, to discuss his plans with fellow Tongmenghui members to overthrow China's corrupt and crumbling Qing Dynasty. Empress Dowager Cixi sends a group of assassins, led by Yan Xiaoguo, to kill Sun. Revolutionary Chen Shaobai arrives in Hong Kong a few days before Sun's arrival, to meet Li Yutang, a businessman who provides financial aid for the revolutionaries. As Sun Wen's arrival day draws near, trouble begins brewing in Hong Kong as Chen Shaobai's acquaintances are murdered and Chen himself is kidnapped by the assassins during a raid. Li Yutang decides to officially declare his support for the revolutionaries after the newspaper agency is closed by the British authorities, who do not interfere in China's political situation. Li rallies a group of men, including rickshaw pullers, hawkers and a beggar, to serve as bodyguards for Sun Wen when he arrives. Li's son Li Chongguang is chosen to act as a decoy for Sun Wen to divert the assassins away while Sun attends the meeting and leaves Hong Kong safely.
Most of the characters are fictional; however, some, including Sun Wen, Chen Shaobai and Yeung Kui-wan, are based on real historical figures.
4th Asian Film Awards
29th Hong Kong Film Awards (most number of nominations in event history)
16th Hong Kong Film Critics Society Awards
47th Golden Horse Awards
A man is determined to stand up for his country despite the challenges of deadly adversaries in this action drama from director Teddy Chen. It's 1906, and as China begins to turn its back on the outside world and makes new demands of its people, a growing number of Chinese citizens are calling for democracy. The possibility of revolution does not sit well with Chinese authorities, and Sun Yat-sen (Hanyu Zhang), an popular activist calling for reform in China, has been forced to seek exile in nearby Hong Kong to protect himself. Sun Yat-sen is hardly the only freedom-loving Chinese patriot living in Hong Kong, and when he's invited to take part in secret talks about the future of the nation, he and his fellow exiles are put into a tight spot. Chinese authorities want to silence Sun Yat-sen by assassination, and military commander Yan Xiaoguo (Hu Jun), his lieutenant Sa Zhenchan (Cung Le) and a regiment of soldiers skilled in martial arts are dispatched to find the underground leader and put him to this death. Now the Chinese expatriate community in Hong King must take sides -- do they ignore the crisis, or stand up to protect Sun Yat-sen in his moment of need? Among those who must decide where they stand are Chen Xiaobai (Tony Leung Ka-fai), an activist and journalist; Chen's financial backer Li Yuetang (Wang Xueqi); his teenage son Li Chungguang (Wang Bo-chieh); Yuet-yu (Fan Bingbing), Li Yuetang's "kept woman;" and Sum Chung-yang (Donnie Yen), her former husband. Shiyue Weicheng (aka Assassins and Bodyguards) was an official selection at the 2010 San Francisco International Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All Bodyguards and Assassins Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 139&nbsp;mins
