Silent Hill: Revelation 3D is a 2012 3D horror film directed and written by Michael J. Bassett and a sequel to the film Silent Hill. Revelation 3D stars Adelaide Clemens, Kit Harington, Deborah Kara Unger, Martin Donovan, Malcolm McDowell, Carrie-Anne Moss, and Sean Bean, and is based on the survival horror video game Silent Hill 3 by Konami. Revelation 3D's plot follows teenager Heather Mason (Clemens) who discovers on the eve of her eighteenth birthday that her presumed identity is false and as a result is drawn to an alternate dimension existing in the fictitious American town of Silent Hill.
Prior to the beginning of Revelation 3D's filming, Bassett expressed his openness to fans' suggestions of actresses for Heather's role. On an estimated $20 million budget, filming lasted from March to May 2011 in Canada, with the 3D RED Epic camera used for the process; audio mixing took place in France. Revelation 3D has grossed $50,622,655 as of January 10, 2013, but has received mainly negative reviews by film critics.
Heather Mason and her adoptive father Christopher Da Silva have spent the past few years moving from town to town and changing names. She believes they are on the run from the police after Harry killed a man in self-defense, and her adoptive mother Rose, died in a car crash. In actual fact, Harry has been protecting her from the Cult of Valtiel, the religious order of Silent Hill, a town haunted by shifting dimensions. Rose was able to free Heather (then Sharon) from the town by using one half of the Seal of Metatron amulet, but Rose remained trapped in Silent Hill.
Heather begins her first day at school, meeting fellow new student Vincent Cooper, but is haunted by hallucinations of Silent Hill. After school, Heather is approached by private investigator Douglas Cartland regarding her identity. Heather warns Harry, but he is abducted by the Order and taken to Silent Hill. Unaware of this, Heather goes to the local mall to wait for Harry, but flees when Douglas appears and Silent Hill’s hellish Otherworld materialises. In a back alley, Douglas explains he was hired by the Order to find Heather, but decides to help her when he discovered who his clients were. A monster, the Missionary, kills Douglas, but when the mall returns to normal, Heather flees, leaving her a suspect to Douglas’ murder.
Vincent escorts her home, but they find a bloody message written on a wall instructing Heather to go to Silent Hill. Heather learns the truth by reading a letter from her father, and decides to go to Silent Hill to rescue him, taking a gun and the half of the Seal of Metatron hidden in Harry’s room. Heather and Vincent travel to the town, but stop at a motel, where Vincent admits he is the son of the Order’s leader Claudia Wolf, and was sent by her to convince Heather to willingly come to Silent Hill. He further reveals Heather is a part of Alessa Gillespie, a supernaturally empowered girl who was burnt 38 years ago by a branch of the Order, leading her to create the town’s shifting dimensions. The Otherworld materialises, and Vincent is dragged away by the Missionary, but not before telling Heather to find his grandfather Leonard who possesses the amulet’s other half.
After being knocked unconscious, Heather ventures into the fog-covered Silent Hill to find Leonard. She encounters Alessa’s mother Dahlia, who reveals Claudia, her sister, intends to complete a purpose intended for Alessa at her burning. The Otherworld alters the town, and Heather encounters the horrors of Silent Hill, including a spider-like monster which transforms victims into mannequins and assimilates them into its body. Heather finds Leonard in Brookhaven Asylum, who explains the amulet will reveal “the true nature of things”. Leonard gains Heather’s half of the amulet, fusing it with his half in his chest and turns into a monster, but Heather kills him by removing the amulet from his body. She is assaulted by the asylum’s prisoners, who are massacred by Pyramid Head, Alessa’s guardian and executioner. She then rescues Vincent from being killed by deformed nurses after being condemned insane by Claudia for betraying the Order.
Heather and Vincent go to Lakeside Amusement Park, where the Order’s sanctuary is hidden. While Vincent distracts some guards, Heather hides on the carousel, which is suddenly surrounded by a ring of fire and Pyramid Head, chained to the centre, causes the carousel to descend into the ground. Dark Alessa, the manifestation of Alessa’s wrath, confronts Heather to take back the hope she is made from. Heather embraces her counterpart, absorbing her and making Alessa complete once again. Heather confronts Claudia, who is holding Harry and Vincent hostage. Claudia explains Alessa’s destiny was to be the incubator for the Order’s God which will punish all the sinners in the world upon its birth, and Heather’s destiny will be complete where she willingly gives the amulet to her. Realising Leonard’s words, Heather gives Claudia the amulet, revealing her to be the Missionary. Heather summons Pyramid Head, who kills Claudia, allowing Heather to rescue Vincent and Harry.
As the fog fades from town, Harry decides to stay in Silent Hill to find and free Rose, leaving Heather in Vincent’s care. Heather and Vincent hitch a ride with a truck driver, and leave town, as Silent Hill is consumed by fog. Meanwhile, a police bus and a few police cars head to Silent Hill.
There is a post-credits scene where Pyramid Head is walking down a corridor in Silent Hill's Otherworld.
Following the release of Silent Hill, Christophe Gans, its director, reported that a sequel "is officially ordered and is already well underway". However, he then declined to direct a sequel, stating he "had other projects in mind." Michael J. Bassett then took over writing and directing duties. Silent Hill's writer Roger Avary had planned to return to the sequel, before his arrest in 2008 for vehicular manslaughter. Michael J. Bassett later replaced Gans and Avary as writer and director.
In 2009, video game artist Masahiro Ito, who participated in the development of multiple installments of the Silent Hill series of video games, was asked to design the creatures and the look of the "Otherworld" dimension featured in the film, but declined the offer because of other obligations. Jeff Danna and Akira Yamaoka composed the film's soundtrack.
Prior to the start of Silent Hill: Revelation 3D's filming, Bassett expressed in his official blog that he was open to fans' suggestions of whom to cast as main protagonist Heather Mason, provided that the actress would provide a realistic portrayal of an eighteen-year-old and that she would be "well known." The existence of a page on the website IMDb was also cited as a requirement. Australian actress Adelaide Clemens was eventually cast in the role.
Principal photography began in Toronto, Ontario, Canada on March 7, 2011 and wrapped in May 2011, with the 3D RED Epic camera used for the process. Street and bridge scenes were shot in Galt from March 21 to March 26 and scenes set at Silent Hill's Lakeside Amusement Park were filmed at the Cherry Beach park on April 7, 2011. The final theatrical mix for the film was completed on February 2, 2012. The film's audio mixing took place in Paris, France, and was handled by a team of six people.
Silent Hill: Revelation 3D received its premier in Hong Kong on 25 October 2012. Its US premiere, released through Open Road Films, was on October 26, 2012. Two clips were screened at San Diego Comic-Con International 2012 and a trailer was published on July 27, 2012. There is no Australian release date yet.
Silent Hill: Revelation 3D opened at #5 at the box office, taking in an opening weekend gross of $8 million, and has internationally grossed a total of $50,622,655, as of January 10, 2013.
Silent Hill: Revelation 3D has received extremely negative reviews, and currently holds a 6% approval rating on review aggregate RottenTomatoes, based on 50 critics and an average rating of 2.9 out of 10. Despite the poor critical response, Dean Boor from Shock Horror Magazine gave the film a 5-star rating stating it was his "Film Of The Year". John Howard from media blog eatpraymedia.com gave the film 2 stars saying that even the most die hard Silent Hill fans would struggle with the films 'horrific dialogue' and lack of coherent story, but praised the films creature and set design. The movie currently has a 5.1 rating on IMDB.

When a young woman (Adelaide Clemens) loses her father (Sean Bean) to mysterious supernatural forces, she must descend into the bowels of hell to find him and discover her true identity in this follow-up to the 2006 adaptation of Konami's Silent Hill video-game franchise. Solomon Kane's Michael J. Bassett directed from his own script. ~ Jeremy Wheeler, RoviSee All Silent Hill: Revelation Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 95&nbsp;mins
