Sleep Tight (Spanish: Mientras duermes) is a Spanish horror thriller film directed by Jaume Balagueró and was written by Alberto Marini. The film was developed under the title Flatmate.
Apartment concierge Cesar (Luis Tosar) is a miserable person who believes he was born without the ability to be happy. As a result, he decides his mission is to make life hell for everyone around him. A majority of the tenants are easy to agitate, but Clara (Marta Etura) proves to be harder than the most. So Cesar goes to creepy extremes to make this young woman mentally breakdown. Things get even more complicated in this twisted relationship when her boyfriend, Marcos (Alberto San Juan), shows up.
Filmax narrated the film on the 2010 Cannes Film Festival and named Jaume Balagueró as director. Alberto Marini wrote the script of the film. Balagueró cast in early May 2010 Luís Tosar and Marta Etura for the leads. Filmax and Balagueró filmed the project in Barcelona, Catalonia. It is Balagueró's first film since Fragile alone on the directing chair.
The United States release is set for 2012.
An embittered concierge at a Barcelona apartment building plots to make one happy-go-lucky resident completely miserable in this psychological thriller from  and  co-screenwriterco-director Jaume Balagueró. Cesar (Alberto San Juan) is a wretched man who subsists on the pain of others. Though the residents rarely take notice of him, Cesar furtively observes every intimate detail of their lives, seething at the first signs of optimism and cheerfulness. Carefree tenant Clara King (Marta Etura) is far too perky for Cesar; the happier she gets, the deeper her doorman sinks into despair. In order for him to be happy, Cesar realizes, Clara will have to suffer. Though at first Cesar' plan to torment Clara from afar goes off without a hitch, things start to fall apart when the scheming doorman gets too confident for his own good. Just as Clara begins to suspect that her curious bad-luck streak may be coming to an end, however, Cesar summons all of his strength and resentment to deliver one last devastating blow. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 101&nbsp;mins
