Nude Nuns with Big Guns is a 2010 nunsploitation thriller film.
The film was the subject of one of the largest copyright lawsuits in California. The two lawsuits are the first time that two different companies claiming the intellectual-property rights of the same movie are each suing the same alleged 5,865 BitTorrent downloaders.
A nun, Sister Sarah, is neglected and abused by a corrupt clergy. On the verge of death after being heavily drugged and wounded, the nun receives a commandment from God to take revenge. Acquiring heavy weapons, Sister Sarah sets out to kill those who had abused her. The frightened church hires "Los Muertos" motorcycle gang to track her down and eliminate her. A refined gentleman by the name "Kickstand" partook in the deflowering of many young maidens.
On March&#160;7, 2011, Camelot Entertainment Group, a film company based in Los Angeles, filed a federal lawsuit, Case No. CV 11-1949 DDP (FMOx), in the District Court for the Central District of California, against BitTorrent users who allegedly downloaded the movie between January and March 2011. The lawsuit which targets 5,865 IP addresses, seeks to compel ISPs to identify the defendants from their IP addresses. The company has until May&#160;13 to "show cause why the Doe defendants should not be severed andor dismissed from this action based on improper joinder of parties or lack of personal jurisdiction". The Electronic Frontier Foundation will act as amicus counsel on the side of the defendants, who at this stage are known only by their internet IP addresses and rough geographic location.
The lawsuit is seen as part of a courtroom based strategy in which defendants are asked to settle or risk being named in a public lawsuit. If successful, the lawsuit could end up collecting more money than the movie earned at the box office.
Incentive Capital of Utah also filed a nearly identical lawsuit against the same IP addresses with the same judge on May 6, 2011.
On May 23, 2011, Camelot filed to dismiss their case, though the distribution group stated that they may refile the case in San Francisco. The lawsuit filed by Incentive Capital was dropped on June 10, 2011.
Following the filing of the BitTorrent lawsuit, concerns have been raised as to whether Camelot Distribution Group actually owns the rights to the film. Camelot defaulted on a loan financed by Incentive Capital used to purchase the movie rights. Though Incentive Capital has already foreclosed on the film, Camelot has stated that the foreclosure was an improper "usurpation of its assets".
A defiled nun embarks on a divine mission of death in this bloody exploitation thriller. Sister Sarah was taking her vows when the very clergymen she trusted committed the ultimate sin. Drugged, defiled, and left for dead, the brutalized nun pulls herself back from the brink and receives a message from God that her tormentors must die. Now, with a big gun, plenty of bullets, and vengeance in her heart, Sister Sarah will slay the slimy clergymen who destroyed her life before single-handedly taking on Los Muertos, a most feared motorcycle gang since the Hell's Angels. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Nude Nuns With Big Guns Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 92&nbsp;mins
