Love Crime (French: Crime d'amour) is a 2010 French psychological suspense thriller starring Ludivine Sagnier and Kristin Scott Thomas. It is the last film directed by Alain Corneau, and was released posthumously after the director's death from cancer.
Set in and around Paris, France, the story revolves around two women who work in a multinational corporation. Christine (Scott-Thomas) is an experienced, ruthless, and emotionally sadistic business executive who enjoys using and betraying people for her own twisted enjoyment. Isabelle (Sagnier) is Christine's young, ambitious and intelligent administrative assistant who regularly suffers from professional and personal humiliations at the hands of Christine who takes credit for her business ideas as well as makes implied threats against her without actually confronting her directly.
A subplot revolves around Christine's boyfriend, Philippe, who is cheating on her with Isabelle at the same time. When Christine discovers accounting irregularties in Philippe's business accounts with the firm, Christine threatens him instead of reporting him, hoping to use him to her own advantage.
Midway through the movie, Isabelle, after suffering one-too-many implied threats and humiliations by Christine, murders her by staging a break-in at Christine's suburban house and stabs her to death. Isabelle then implicates herself in the crime, a seeming sign of a nervous breakdown, when she allows herself to get arrested and incarcerated. At this point, the imprisoned Isabelle embarks on a quest to prove her innocence of a murder that she actually committed, but her defense may prove to be even more difficult than she anticipated due to her history with Christine and of the circumstantual evidence that Isabelle herself planted.
The film opened in the U.S. in September 2011 in limited release, and is slowly making its way around the U.S. The dialogue is in both French and English; the English being spoken only when the characters of Christine and Isabelle have to interact or deal with foreign clients who do not speak French.
The film has received a 63% "Fresh" rating, according to the website Rotten Tomatoes.
It was announced in 2012 that Rachel McAdams and Noomi Rapace would play the lead roles in a French-German-Spanish-UK remake of the film titled Passion to be directed by Brian de Palma  It will sell at the 2012 Cannes Film Festival. The film has been selected to compete for the Golden Lion at the 69th Venice International Film Festival.
Celebrated French actresses Kristin Scott-Thomas and Ludivine Sagnier go head-to-head as dual femme fatales in this scathing, shocking corporate thriller from helmer Alain Corneau (All the Mornings of the World). Christine (Scott-Thomas) is the head executive at a top agribusiness firm in France. Ruthless and uncompromising, she revels in playing diabolical head-games with her staffers that include blackmail and seduction, and enjoys an almost pathologically close relationship with protégé Isabelle (Sagnier). The women also share a lover, accountant Philippe (Patrick Mille), who readily assumes a submissive role to the dominatrix posturing of each lady in the bedroom. The balance of power shifts, however, when a colleague (Guillaume Marquet) shows Isabelle how to "one-up" Christine in the office - which prompts Christine to respond with a nasty, humiliating trick involving a security camera. In the days ahead, retaliation escalates on both ends until each of the women begins contemplating felonious action against the other. To reveal more would be unfair, but suffice it to say that Corneau packs the narrative with a series of unforeseeable twists and turns. As the director's final film (he died in 2010), Love Crime brought Corneau much needed critical acclaim at the end of his life, following a series of disappointments including Words in Blue and Second Wind. ~ Nathan Southern, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 106&nbsp;mins
