Sound of My Voice is a 2011 American psychological thriller directed by Zal Batmanglij about a supposed cult. The film was co-written by Batmanglij and Brit Marling. It premiered at the 2011 Sundance Film Festival. It was also selected as part of the 2011 SXSW Film Festival. The film was released by Fox Searchlight Pictures on April 27, 2012.
Set in Los Angeles, substitute schoolteacher Peter and aspiring writer Lorna are a couple in their twenties embarking on their first undercover journalism project. Their subject is a small cult led by the mysterious Maggie. Both Peter and Lorna have personal motivations to expose Maggie as a fraud.
When the cult considers Peter and Lorna ready to meet Maggie, they are told to shower thoroughly and dress in white surgical gowns. Then they are driven blindfolded to a secret location and received by Klaus, with whom they exchange a special, intricate handshake. They join with eight other members and meet Maggie, who uses an oxygen tank and implies that the showering and clothing requirements are to avoid aggravating her illness.
Maggie claims to be a time-traveler from the year 2054. She describes the future as riddled with war, famine and struggle, and has come back to select a special band of chosen people to prepare for what lies ahead. She leads the group in a series of intense psychological exercises and tells them about herself and the future, never proving nor disproving her extraordinary claim. Maggie's charismatic manner is powerful, and both Lorna and Peter have moments of wavering skepticism. Lorna is especially concerned when she notices that Peter, who was initially adamant that Maggie is a fraud, seems to be privately intrigued by Maggie and susceptible to the exercises.
After several group meetings, Maggie instructs Peter to bring her an eccentric eight-year-old student he's taught. She insists the student is her mother, and that he and Lorna will be banned from the group if he doesn't comply. When Peter admits that he is considering following Maggie's orders, Lorna is outraged and accuses him of falling for Maggie's deception. After they fight, Lorna is privately approached by Carol, a woman who claims to be from the Justice Department who claims Maggie is a wanted felon. Lorna agrees to set Maggie up to be captured, and to hide her plans from Peter.
Peter arranges for Maggie to meet the student in public during a class field trip. When Maggie meets the little girl, Peter is amazed to see them do the special handshake. The little girl asks how Maggie knew her secret handshake, and Maggie reverently responds: "You taught it to me." Then police burst into the room and arrest Maggie. As cult members angrily accuse Peter of betraying Maggie, he exchanges a glance with Lorna who smiles slightly, affirming her role in the capture. The little girl asks Peter who Maggie was, and he responds, stricken, that he doesn't know. The truth about Maggie remains ambiguous.
Sound of My Voice was also named among the Top Indie Films at Festivals in 2011 on IndieWire's criticWIRE.
Manohla Dargis writes in her review in The New York Times: "Nobody is gutted in Sound of My Voice, a smart, effectively unsettling movie about the need to believe and the hard, cruel arts of persuasion. But over time the men and women who meet in a mysterious house in an anonymous Los Angeles neighborhood – where they shed their clothes and cleanse their bodies in a ritual – are opened up bit by bit, wound by wound, until they’re sobbing and laughing, their insides smeared across the carpet."
In September 2012, the film won the Octopus d’Or at the Strasbourg European Fantastic Film Festival, for the best international feature film.
In his roundup of 2012's cinematic standouts Variety film critic Peter Debruge admitted to having watched Sound of My Voice, which he called an "ingenious low-budget puzzler," 4 times.
Peter and Lorna endure a rigorous preparation in order to infiltrate a highly secretive cult and confront its mysterious leader, Maggie (Brit Marling), who claims to be a visitor from the future on a crucial mission. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Sound of My Voice Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 85&nbsp;mins
