Perfect Sense, formerly known as The Last Word, is a 2011 drama film directed by David Mackenzie and written by Kim Fupz Aakeson, starring Eva Green and Ewan McGregor. Scenes were shot in various locations around Glasgow. The film premiered at the 2011 Sundance Film Festival.
A story about two people—a chef and an epidemiologist—who fall in love just as an epidemic begins to rob the world's population of their sensory perceptions.
The epidemic causes humans to lose their senses. First, they start crying for no reason. After drying up their tears, they notice they have lost their ability to smell. This is followed by the loss of taste and hearing and finally eye sight. The epidemic is not given a major part in the movie. Instead, the movie focuses on the two lovers and the rest of the people dealing with the situation. For example, Michael, being a chef, has to go on cooking for the people who can neither smell nor taste.
Original soundtrack: Max Richter
Reviews for Perfect Sense have been mixed. Rotten Tomatoes has the film ranked at 51%. Tirdad Derakhshani of the Philadelphia Inquirer wrote in his review, "The film loses its charm with annoying sequences that have a narrator explain to us 'The Meaning of it All' and then tell us "What Really Matters" in life: Love. Love. Love."; and Stephen Holden of the New York Times defined it as "a solemn sci-fi parable set in present-day Glasgow, whose deepening sense of foreboding is sustained by the enigmatic, pseudo-biblical reflections of an unseen narrator." While Mark Holcomb of the Village Voice said the film "beautifully captures the ache and counterintuitive thrill of 'the days as we know them, the world as we imagine the world' fading away by degrees—just don't be surprised if you find yourself longing for a contagion-spawned zombie bloodbath to counter the shambling lyricism."
The film opened at 59 cinemas on its domestic release grossing £21,675 for the weekend 7–9 October 2011.
Eva Green plays Susan, an expert in epidemics who, after having her heart broken, sees a patient who has lost the ability to smell anything after an unexpected crying jag. Turns out there is a small percentage of people who are experiencing emotional upheavals and then losing one or more of their senses. As she begins to research this condition, she comes to understand that the malady threatens the entire world. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Perfect Sense Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 92&nbsp;mins
