Gone is a 2012 thriller film written by Allison Burnett, directed by Heitor Dhalia, and starring Amanda Seyfried.
Jillian "Jill" Conway (Amanda Seyfried) lives in Portland, Oregon with her sister Molly (Emily Wickersham), a college student. One night, Jill is kidnapped by a brutal serial killer who puts her in a deep vertical hole somewhere in Portland's 5100 acre Forest Park. Jill finds human remains, using a bone to stab her abductor and escape from the hole using his rope ladder. When the Portland police are unable to find the hole, and discover that Jill had been committed to a psychiatric institution after her parents' death, they believe the abduction only happened in Jill's head, and send Jill back to a psychiatric facility.
A year later, Jill now works as a waitress in a local diner on the graveyard shift. She and her friend Sharon Ames (Jennifer Carpenter) are generously tipped by a regular customer. Returning home from the shift, Jill is shocked that Molly is missing. Molly's boyfriend, Billy (Sebastian Stan), tells her that he hasn't heard from Molly, and that she didn't show up for an important exam she had. Jill becomes convinced that the serial killer who took her has now taken Molly.
Police Lt. Ray Bozeman (Michael Paré), Sergeant Powers (Daniel Sunjata), and Detective Erica Lonsdale (Katherine Moennig) dismiss her claims, trying to look for any other excuse for Molly to be missing, believing that it's all in Jill's head. The department's newest homicide detective, Peter Hood (Wes Bentley) tells her that he believes her, giving Jill his card in case she needs any help about the case.
Jill interrogates her neighbors and learns that a van with a locksmith company's name on it parked in front of her house in the middle of the night. Jill finds the company it belongs to and talks to owner Henry Massey (Ted Rooney) and the van's driver, Massey's son Nick (Joel David Moore). When Nick denies any knowledge, Jill breaks into the van, where she finds a receipt from a hardware store for things that the killer would use. Jill holds Nick at gunpoint and forces him to reveal that he allowed a stranger named "Digger" to rent the van during the night.
Nick reports Jill's gun waving behaviour to the police, who plan to arrest Jill, as her time in the psychiatric facility means she can not get a gun permit. Jill goes to the hardware store, and learns that Digger's real name is Jim McCoy (Socratis Otto), and that he's staying at a rundown hotel. After narrowly eluding the police, Jill heads to the hotel, and breaks into McCoy's room, where she finds duct tape, pet food like that which she was given by her kidnapper, and matches from the diner where she works.
Jill visits Sharon, and learns that McCoy is the generous tipper from the diner. Sharon gives Jill his phone number and – after another narrow escape from the police – agrees to let Jill borrow her car. Jill then calls McCoy, who gives her directions to a location in Forest Park. Jill locates a small campsite and finds pictures of McCoy's victims, and at the same time, Molly breaks the duct tape off of her hands, and escapes, only to discover she has been taped in her house all along. Powers and Lonsdale are shocked when they hear Molly's story, finally believing what they have heard from Jill.
Jill finds the hole where McCoy held her captive. McCoy emerges from an alcove from within the hole and grabs Jill, pulling her into the hole. He intends to kill her with the piece of bone that Jill stabbed him with in her initial escape. Jill draws her gun and shoots him, climbs up then extracts the rope ladder, trapping McCoy in the hole. McCoy admits that Molly has been bound and gagged under their house the whole time, and he only used Molly to lure Jill into a trap. Jill pours a can of kerosene into the hole and lights it, burning McCoy to death. Jill arrives home, finding Molly, Powers and Lonsdale. She whispers to Molly that McCoy is dead, then sarcastically tells the police that everything was in her imagination.
Some time later, Bozeman is in his office when he receives an anonymous package. Inside are pictures McCoy had taken of each of his victims, bound and gagged in the hole, including Jill herself. A map indicates the spot in Forest Park where the police can find the hole. Realizing how wrong he was about Jill, Bozeman calls Powers into his office to reopen the case so they can investigate the hole and McCoy's campsite.
The film was not screened for critics and was panned. Gone currently holds a 12% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 47 reviews from critics; the consensus states "a slow, traditional thriller that is neutered by its script and its rating." On Metacritic, which uses an average of critics' reviews, Gone has a 36100 rating, indicating "generally unfavorable" reviews.
Gone was a failure at the box office grossing a domestic amount of $11,682,205 and $4,611,955 internationally for a worldwide total of $16,294,160.
A young woman (Amanda Seyfried) prepares to confront the assailant who previously abducted her, and who has now sought vengeance by kidnapping her sister in this thriller from director Heitor Dhalia. Jill (Seyfried) lives a quiet life, yet one marked by a severe anxiety that the man who once threw her in a ditch to die was going to come back and finish the job. When her sister Molly (Emily Wickersham) goes missing, Jill heads to the police, but no one will listen to her, save for Detective Hood (Wes Bentley), who might or might not have his own reasons for lending a hand. As time runs out, Jill becomes more frantic and takes to desperate measures, putting the police on her trail as she tries to put an end to her nightmare once and for all. Jennifer Carpenter, Joel David Moore, and Michael Pare co-star in the Summit Entertainment release. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Gone Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 95&nbsp;mins
