The Mooring is a 2012 suspense thriller film directed by Glenn Withrow, starring Hallie Todd, Thomas Wilson Brown, and ten young actors from across the United States. It follows a group of girls in a technology addiction camp who run into a dangerous couple in the woods. The film had its premiere at Switzerland's Neuchatel International Fantastic Film Festival, and was released on DVD and Digital Download by Lionsgate in February 2013.
Every 40 seconds a person goes missing. In northern Idaho, a group of teenage girls attended a summer camp to help them connect with nature without technology. They were told it would be a summer of change. As the girls' houseboat is suddenly stranded in the middle of the river an odd couple comes to their aid. What was supposed to be a healing retreat turns deadly as the girls find themselves on the run, being pursued through the forest by a brutal and determined killer. 

The movie was written by Glenn Withrow, Hallie Todd and their daughter Ivy Withrow, who was fifteen when they wrote the screenplay. They cast the lead roles of the girls from students at Hallie Todd Studios. 
The film was directed by veteran actor Glenn Withrow and was shot on location in Northern Idaho and Eastern Washington. The river sequences were shot on Lake Coeur d'Alene, Chatcolet Lake and the Saint Joe River in Idaho. The camping sequences were shot at Priest Lake, ID, and Rocky Point and Plummer Point, near St. Maries, ID. The rapelling scenes were all shot in Spokane, WA.
The Mooring premiered at Switzerland's Neuchatel International Fantastic Film Festival on July 8, 2012, airing during their Ultra Movies screenings.
Lionsgate released the movie on Redbox on February 12, 2013 and on DVD, Digital Download and Video-on-Demand February 19, 2013.  The DVD contains a "Making of The Mooring" special feature, including interviews with director Glenn Withrow, actors Hallie Todd, Thomas Wilson Brown and Erin McIntosh, as well as producer Ivy Withrow, editor Rob Jaeger, line producer Todd Kaufman, and composer Mike Jarzabek.
A serine trip down a northern Idaho river turns into an inescapable nightmare for a group of teenage girls in this brutal tale of survival. Determined to leave the hustle and bustle of the city behind, the adventuresome girls arrive at a secluded camp, and board a houseboat for a lazy ride down a scenic river. When they find themselves suddenly stranded, a peculiar couple offers some much needed help. But their rescuers' kind offer masks malevolent intentions, and with no one to hear their screams for miles around, the girls are soon being hunted through the woods by a ruthless killer who won't stop until they're all dead. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 90&nbsp;mins
