HaHov, HaChov, or in English, The Debt, is a 2007 Israeli drama-thriller film directed by Assaf Bernstein and starring Gila Almagor, Yuriy Chepurnov, and Oleg Drach, about three retired Mossad agents confronted by a challenge from their past.
Actors with corresponding major characters:
The film is not based on actual fact, and centers on an Israeli-Mossad team who in 1964 capture a notorious Nazi doctor who had performed human experimentation in a German extermination camp, and, when he escapes from them, they report him as being shot once in the head and killed during his attempted escape. In the following years, the agents receive numerous accolades for their actions, with none suspecting the truth, but in the late 1990s, they learn he may be alive, repentant, and likely to expose the truth of the events.
The film was nominated for four 2007 awards by the Israeli Film Academy: Best Art Direction, Ido Dolev; Best Cinematography, Giora Bejach; Best Costumes, Inbal Shuki; and Best Supporting Actress, Neta Garty.
The film has as of February 2011 had no theatrical release in United States, but a version with English subtitles has screened at film festivals there, and been shown on the Sundance cable-television channel.
A 2011 U.S. remake of the 2007 film is entitled The Debt and stars Helen Mirren, Sam Worthington, Ciarán Hinds and Tom Wilkinson. It was directed by John Madden from a screenplay written by Matthew Vaughn, Jane Goldman and Peter Straughan. It was originally scheduled for release in December 2010, but was instead released on August 31, 2011.
As her retirement unfurls, ex-Mossad agent Rachel (Gila Almagor) unexpectedly comes face to face with a long-buried demon from her past in Israeli director Assaf Bernstein's haunting psychological thriller The Debt. Though Rachel lived out a central intelligence career packed with one earth-shaking climax after another, the highlight undoubtedly arrived in the mid-'60s, when she and colleagues Ehud and Zvi joined forces to successfully track down and exterminate a long-elusive Nazi war criminal ominously nicknamed "The Surgeon of Birkenau." Now, the mid-'90s have arrived, and Rachel attends the party to celebrate her recently published memoirs. Zvi suddenly crops up for the first time in years, with a haunting and compelling account of an elderly gentleman in a Kiev, Ukraine nursing home, who insists that he is actually the "real" surgeon. Director Bernstein co-mingles 1960s spy film visual style with the tale of a woman in her golden years summoned to perform one last mission, checking off an assignment left unrealized. ~ Nathan Southern, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 97&nbsp;mins
