The Raven is a 2012 American thriller film directed by James McTeigue and based on a screenplay by Ben Livingston and Hannah Shakespeare. It stars John Cusack, Alice Eve, Brendan Gleeson and Luke Evans. It was released March 9, 2012 in Canada, Ireland, the United Kingdom and the United States on April 27, 2012.
Set in 1849, it is a fictionalized account of the last days of Edgar Allan Poe's life, in which the poet and author pursues a serial killer whose murders mirror those in Poe's stories. While the plot of the film is fictional, the writers based it on some accounts of real situations surrounding Edgar Allan Poe's mysterious death. Poe is said to have repeatedly called out the name "Reynolds" on the night before his death, though it is unclear to whom he was referring. The title derives from Poe's poem "The Raven", in the similar manner of the unrelated 1935 and 1963 previous films.
In 19th century Baltimore, Maryland, several policemen burst into an apartment to discover a murdered woman sprawled on the floor. Detective Emmett Fields is called to assist in the investigation and discovers that the crime resembles a fictional murder in the short story "The Murders in the Rue Morgue".
The alcoholic writer, Edgar Allan Poe, is brought to see Fields for questioning and learns someone is using his stories as the backdrop for a series of murders. The two men are called to investigate the murders. Poe's lodgings are burned down by people who believe he is responsible for the murders, and he moves in with Fields.
Poe and Fields search tunnels under the city with several policemen and discover the walled-up corpse. Two clues are found. Poe and Fields deduce these clues to refer to the Holy Cross church. As the police attempt to break down the church doors, the killer attacks and wounds Fields. Poe gives chase but the killer escapes. Poe writes a new column and tells the killer that he's tired of this.
In the morning, the maid gives Poe a letter from the killer. Believing the editor to be the murderer, Poe races to the newspaper office but finds the editor's corpse. The real killer then appears; congratulates Poe on finding him. The killer gives Poe a vial of poison and tells him to drink it. Once Poe is too weak to go for help, the killer tells Poe that he's moving to Paris. Poe learns that the killer will be traveling under the name "Reynolds".
As the killer leaves, Poe wanders off to a park bench to die. A man recognizes him as "Edgar Poe," the famous writer. All that the dying Poe can say to the man is "Tell Fields his name is Reynolds". When Fields comes to view Poe's corpse at the hospital, the attending physician tells him the writer's last words.
In Paris, the killer, Ivan, enters a carriage. Fields greets him with a pistol.
Jeremy Renner was originally going to star in the film (playing the role later taken by Luke Evans), but he dropped out so that he could star in Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol. Ewan McGregor was also in talks for a role, but he also dropped out. On August 28, 2010, it was confirmed that John Cusack would play Edgar Allan Poe in the film. Joaquin Phoenix was also approached to star at one point.
The filming began on November 9, 2010 in Belgrade and Budapest. The first images from the set were revealed on November 15, 2010. A trailer for the film was released online October 7, 2011. This date is significant because it also marks the anniversary of Poe's death at age 40 in 1849. In 2011 Relativity acquired U.S. rights for only $4 million.
Critical reaction to The Raven has been mostly negative. The film holds a rating of 22% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 123 reviews and a 46 on Metacritic. James Berardinelli gave the film two and a half stars out of four, writing: "The Raven looks great and is well-paced, but a lack of a compelling resolution makes it an anemic effort." Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle wrote, "The story has its moments, and yet there is something about this tale ... that doesn't completely satisfy." Richard Roeper though gave the movie a very positive review, giving the movie a B+.
The Raven barely brought back its budget at the box office by grossing $26.05 million worldwide on a budget of $26 million.
Upon discovering that a psychotic serial killer has been using his writings as inspiration, legendary author Edgar Allan Poe (John Cusack) joins forces with a bright, young Baltimore detective to catch the maniac and end his reign of terror. Detective Emmett Fields (Luke Evans) was investigating a vicious murder when he realized the crime scene bore a striking resemblance to a mystery story that was just published in the local newspaper. The author of that ominous tale was Edgar Allan Poe, a brilliant young writer whose status as a social outcast catches the attention of the diligent detective. Shortly after Poe is questioned by the authorities, detectives stumble upon yet another murder scene that seems to have been inspired by the author's morbid writings. Convinced that the killer will once again use Poe's writings as a springboard to murder, Detective Fields recruits the reclusive author to help piece together a pattern to the crimes and stop the madman before he can strike again. Brendan Gleeson and Alice Eve co-star in this tense period thriller from director James McTeigue (V for Vendetta). ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Raven Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 110&nbsp;mins
