Intruders is a Spanish film directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo and written by the Spanish duo Nicolás Casariego and Jaime Marques.
Though no one can see him, Hollow Face lurks in the corners, desperately desiring love but only knowing how to spread fear and hate. He creeps into the life of John Farrow, after Farrow's beloved 12-year-old daughter Mia is assaulted in their home. The line between the real and the imaginary blurs as fissures start to open within the family unit. It seems that no security measure can keep Hollow Face out.
The British and Spanish project stars Clive Owen, Kerry Fox, Carice van Houten and Daniel Brühl in the leads. The shooting began in the end of June 2010, in London, Madrid and Segovia, under the directorial guidance Juan Carlos Fresnadillo. The screenplay was written by the Spanish duo Nicolás Casariego and Jaime Marques, based on a story by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo. Belén Atienza and Enrique López Lavigne works as producer for Antena 3 Films, Apaches Entertainment and Universal Pictures.
The US release is set for March 30, 2012 for a limited release of 33 theaters.
A mysterious beast stalks innocent children in this thriller from Spanish director Juan Carlos Fresnadillo. In the 1980s, Juan (Izan Corchero) is a young boy with an active imagination and a talent for writing stories. However, he is being terrorized by a strange creature that lurks in his room late at night and doesn't seem to have a face. Juan's mother Luisa (Pilar Lopez de Ayala) is skeptical at first, but comes to believe demonic forces are at work and asks a local priest (Daniel Bruehl) to chase the spirits out. However, it soon becomes obvious Satan is not the one to blame for the horrible visits. Three decades later, John (Clive Owen) and Susanna (Carice van Houten) are the parents of Mia (Ella Purnell), a 13-year-old girl. John is fiercely protective of his daughter, and when she's attacked in her room late one night, he's determined to find whoever or whatever is responsible. As it happens, Mia is being visited by Hollowface, a monster similar to the one who was stalking Juan, and he's just as difficult to frighten away. Juan Carlos Fresnadillo's first directorial project after his commercial breakthrough with 28 Weeks Later, Intruders was an official selection at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All Intruders Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 99&nbsp;mins
