Beneath the Darkness is an American horror-thriller film directed by Martin Guigui, and starring Tony Oller, Dennis Quaid, Devon Werkheiser and Aimee Teegarden.
Ely Vaughn (Quaid) is a beloved native of a small Texas town with a dark secret. formerly the star quarterback, now the local mortician. Two years prior to the events of the film Ely's wife Rosemary died tragically, causing him to withdraw from society. In private his evil quirks blossomed, but his secrets won't stay hidden for long. Travis, (Oller) a troubled teen doing lawn work in the employ of Ely, is scarred by a loss of his own: his sister died a decade before when he was just 7 years old. Travis' sighting of a dark spectral presence at his sister's bedside the evening she died has led him to a quiet belief in the paranormal, which fuels a suspicion that brings him and three of his friends to Ely's Funeral Home where the would-be ghost hunters inadvertently discover Ely's secret. The mad mortician kills one of the snooping teens but none of the local law enforcement believes what the remaining kids have to say and leaving them to their own devices to bring Ely to justice.
On November 19, 2010, Martin Guigui was named as the director and co-producer of the project. Guillermo Del Toro cast Globe Award and Nominee Award actor Dennis Quaid for the lead role of Ely on November 20, 2010. On November 25, 2010, Guigui announced via Facebook that pre-production had begun on the project, which is being financed by Sunset Pictures. On November 20, 2010, Tony Oller was cast for the lead role of Travis. TV Series star Devon Werkheiser was cast on November 21, and was joined one week later by actress Aimee Teegarden and American actor Brett Cullen. Filming began on November 22, 2010 in Austin, Texas, with other scenes being shot in Smithville, Texas.
The film had a limited theatrical release starting January 6, 2012. The film was released on DVD February 28, 2012, and became available on Netflix Instant Streaming the same day.
The Hollywood Reporter published in its review that "Beneath the Darkness is a teens-in-trouble thriller with barely enough momentum to make it to the end credits" and that "it's clear nobody in the production has any interest " and "the screenplay is too proud of its going-nowhere literary allusions". The New York Post remarked, "Even Dennis Quaid’s uncharacteristic hamming as a mad mortician in a small Texas town can’t save this silly, scare-free horror film briefly haunting theaters en route to entombment on home video."
A small-town mortician finds his darkest secret revealed in director Martin Guigui's edge-of-your-seat thriller. Everyone in Smithville, Texas, knows the name Ely Vaughn (Dennis Quaid). A former star quarterback on the high-school football team, amiable Ely went on to become the town mortician. Ely's always got a quick smile ready as he cheers on the hometown team, but two years after his wife's untimely death, he's grown increasingly reclusive. He lives in a sprawling mansion that also doubles as the local funeral home, and rumor has it that the house is haunted. For curious teens Travis (Tony Oller), Brian (Stephen Lunsford), Abby (Aimee Teegarden), and Danny (Devon Werkheiser), the temptation to find out for themselves if the stories are true prove too powerful to resist. Gazing into Ely's windows, the teens witness the silhouettes of the grieving widower and an unidentified woman dancing together, and decide to get a closer look. But it may be the last mistake they ever make, because beneath Ely's friendly facade dwells a murderous sociopath capable of unspeakable evil. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Beneath the Darkness Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 96&nbsp;mins
