Sinners and Saints is a 2010 action-thriller film directed by and co-written by William Kaufman. It stars Johnny Strong, Kevin Phillips, Costas Mandylor, Sean Patrick Flanery, Bas Rutten, Method Man, Kim Coates and Tom Berenger. The film is set in the dark underbelly of New Orleans. It was released in North America on DVD and Blu-ray on January 10, 2012.
Detective Sean Riley (Johnny Strong) is emotionally destroyed after the death of his son and the abandonment of his wife. After the death of his partner, Det. Dave Besson (Kim Coates), Riley's superior, Captain Trahan (Tom Berenger) assigns Riley to investigate a series of murders involving victims burned several times over. One of the victims is the younger brother of infamous gangster Weddo (Method Man), which sparks a gang war in the Big Easy.
Riley's childhood friend Colin (Sean Patrick Flanery) resurfaces one night. He tells Riley that since they served in the military together, he has gotten various freelance jobs with a private security company called Spartan. The next day, Riley is partnered with Detective Will Ganz (Kevin Phillips), a stable family man, to continue his investigation. They stumble into a group of mercenaries in the act of burning another victim, and a shootout ensues.
It is revealed that a man named Raymond Crowe (Costas Mandylor) hired the mercenaries. As the investigation continues, Riley discovers that Colin is in possession of incriminating evidence against Spartan: a video of the same mercenaries from the shootout executing innocents while on assignment. Riley and Ganz find Colin at a decrepit part of the city, but too late. The mercenaries, now revealed to be Spartans, attack. A badly wounded Colin takes his own life, blowing up the house he is in so that Riley and Ganz can escape.
Trahan tells Riley that the city wants to blame Riley for the disastrous results of the investigation. Riley decides to take matters into his own hands, stockpiling weapons in his home. Trahan comes over to try to talk him out of it, but is ambushed and killed by Dekker (Bas Rutten), a leader of the mercenaries. Dekker tries to kill Riley, but Riley manages to kill him. He discovers that Crowe has kidnapped Ganz.
Riley breaks into Crowe's stronghold and kills the remaining mercenaries. Crowe manages to escape, leading to a street chase. Crowe reveals his intentions and manages to shoot Riley, but Riley shoots him down on the street. Riley is about to kill Crowe, and Ganz shouts at him to do it, but Riley decides not kill him; instead, Weddo and his gang drive up and take Crowe with them, presumably to kill him themselves. Later, Riley visits Ganz's child's birthday party. Afterward, he visits the cemetery where his son is buried.
A haunted New Orleans cop realizes that one of his oldest friends may be the ringleader of a vicious crime ring while teaming with a seasoned detective to investigate a brutal underworld killing. Detective Sean Reilly (Johnny Strong) is the head of the distinguished "Street Crimes" crime squad in the Big Easy. He's still recovering from the recent death of his son when his wife walks out on him, and his partner is killed during a brutal ambush. Sympathetic yet reluctant to lose one of his best men, Captain Trehan (Tom Berenger) partners Sean with Detective William Ganz (Kevin Phillips). Their mission: sniff out the clues in a brutal gangland slaying, and brink the killer to justice. Later, as all evidence points to Colin (Sean Patrick Flanery), a lifelong friend of Sean's and a defense contractor who has recently returned from the Middle East, the stakes suddenly get higher than anyone could have anticipated. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Sinners and Saints Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 104&nbsp;mins
