Martha Marcy May Marlene is a 2011 American drama film written and directed by Sean Durkin, and starring Elizabeth Olsen, John Hawkes, Sarah Paulson, and Hugh Dancy. The plot focuses on a young woman suffering from delusions and paranoia after returning to her family from an abusive cult in the Catskill Mountains.
Early one morning, Martha (Elizabeth Olsen) flees from an abusive cult in the Catskill Mountains that is led by an enigmatic leader, Patrick (John Hawkes). She is briefly pursued by another member of the group, Watts (Brady Corbet), to a nearby diner. He encourages Martha to return, but she refuses. Outside the diner, Martha phones her sister Lucy, eventually asking for her help. Lucy (Sarah Paulson) picks her up from a nearby bus station and takes Martha to her lake house in Connecticut which she shares with her husband, Ted (Hugh Dancy). Martha only tells Lucy that she had been living with her boyfriend in the Catskill Mountains, leaving out all mention of the cult. While sunbathing, Martha asks Lucy how far they currently are from where Lucy picked her up, to which Lucy replies "About three hours." At the lake, Martha removes all her clothing to swim in the nude, and Lucy scolds her for it. During the following days, Martha continues to exhibit unusual behavior, with little regard for the norms of American society.
In a flashback, Martha is seen meeting Patrick for the first time. Within minutes of their meeting, Patrick declares that she "looks like a Marcy May," instead of Martha. It is explained to Martha that the group is working toward being self-sufficient on their farm. Patrick begins to take a strong interest in Martha. Patrick rapes her, and afterward another woman assures her that she was "lucky" to have Patrick as her first sex partner. Later, he sings Jackson C. Frank's song "Marcy's Song" in front of the group, and now addresses Martha as Marcy May. The cult members are shown swimming naked together at a waterfall.
At the lake house, Martha walks into Lucy and Ted's room while they are having sex and gets into bed with them. A horrified Lucy explains that this isn't "normal" behaviour, and Ted is furious about the incident. Martha continues to struggle with the return to her old life, preferring to sleep on the floor rather than in a bed. Lucy, understanding that Martha has been through trauma, blames herself. Martha insists that she has become a teacher and a leader. Ted asks Martha what she plans to do for a job, and Martha tells him that she doesn't need money and possessions. Martha anonymously calls the farm but hangs up the phone once her identity is guessed.
In another flashback to her time on the farm, Martha introduces a new girl, Sarah, to life on the farm. She explains that they all help out with Katie and Patrick's baby. When Sarah comments that all the infants in the community are boys, Martha replies that "he only has boys." Martha later prepares Sarah for her "special night" with Patrick, presumably the same ritual of rape that Martha experienced. The preparation includes drinking a drugged drink. While teaching Martha to shoot, Patrick asks her to kill a cat to prove that she is "a teacher and a leader," but she refuses. He then asks her to shoot another cult member; she refuses to do this as well. One night, Martha, Watts, and Zoe break into a house and steal valuables. In another scene, several cult members have sex in one room while Patrick watches from a stairway.
In the present, Martha becomes increasingly paranoid that the cult is watching her, suspicious whenever the phone rings. A black truck identical to the cult's appears one night by the lake house. Martha assumes it is their truck and smashes the window. Lucy hosts a party and Martha believes she recognizes the bartender as one of Patrick's men. She becomes hysterical, telling Lucy that the man is lying and that everybody has to leave. Ted and Lucy take Martha into their room, where they comfort and restrain her as she has an anxiety attack. Lucy continues to struggle to understand what has happened to Martha. Ted suggests they seek help for Martha, telling Lucy that she needs to be moved to a mental health facility.
In a flashback, Martha, Watts, and Zoe break into another house but are found by the owner. They go to leave, but Patrick appears and confronts the owner, questioning whether he will call the police. The man orders the group out and promises not to call the police, but an elder member of the group, Katie, stabs him in the back. They quickly leave, with Martha clearly in shock. Martha is later shown answering the phone, using the name "Marlene Lewis"--a name that all the women use on the phone to conceal their identities. Martha struggles in the aftermath of the attack, and Patrick demands that she pull herself together because she is his favorite. He tries to convince her that death is actually a good thing.
After a nightmare at the lake house, Martha attacks Ted in her confusion. This leads Lucy to confront Martha, making it clear she must leave and informing her that they will pay for her treatment.
The next morning, Martha goes swimming in the lake and sees a man watching her from the opposite shore. It is not clear whether the man is actually there or is a hallucination. Ted and Lucy then drive Martha to her treatment facility when the same man from the lake runs in front of Ted's car. He gets into a car parked on the side of the road and begins to follow them. Martha nervously looks back as they drive on. The film ends ambiguously, with Martha's fate unknown.
Martha Marcy May Marlene premiered at the 2011 Sundance Film Festival in January, with Durkin winning the festival's U.S. Directing Award for Best Drama. It also screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival and screened at the 36th Toronto International Film Festival on September 11, 2011. The film received a limited release in the United States on October 21, 2011.
20th Century Fox Home Entertainment released Martha Marcy May Marlene on DVD and Blu-ray on February 21, 2012.
The film received highly positive reviews, while Elizabeth Olsen's performance as the traumatized Martha met with critical acclaim; the film holds a 90% "fresh" rating on Rotten Tomatoes, with the consensus capsule stating, "Led by a mesmerizing debut performance from Elizabeth Olsen, Martha Marcy May Marlene is a distinctive, haunting psychological drama." On Metacritic, the film has a 76 out of 100 "Metascore". Christy Lemire of the Associated Press named Martha Marcy Mae Marlene the best movie of 2011. Roger Ebert gave the film three-and-a-half out of four stars, describing Olsen as "a genuine discovery ... She has a wide range of emotions to deal with here, and in her first major role, she seems instinctively to know how to do that." Ebert's only major complaint was that the movie's chronological shifts were "a shade too clever. In a serious film, there is no payoff for trickery."
In its opening weekend in limited release, Martha Marcy May Marlene grossed $137,651 in the United States.
An escaped cult member experiences paranoia and isolation while attempting to start a new life with her sister's family. Try as Martha might to blend into her new upper-middle-class surroundings, she can't help but be haunted by nightmares of the time she spent under the control of a malevolent cult leader, or the fear that the group is watching her every move and awaiting the perfect moment to take their revenge. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Martha Marcy May Marlene Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 102&nbsp;mins
