One for the Money is a 2012 comedy film based on the 1994 novel of the same name by Janet Evanovich. Directed by Julie Anne Robinson, the screenplay was written by Liz Brixius, Karen McCullah Lutz and Kirsten Smith. It stars Katherine Heigl, Jason O'Mara, Debbie Reynolds, Daniel Sunjata and Sherri Shepherd.
The film was universally panned by critics and failed to recoup its $40 million budget at the box office.
Stephanie Plum (Katherine Heigl), out of work and out of cash, turns in desperation to her disreputable cousin Vinnie, of Vinnie's Bail Bonds, for work. Despite having no equipment, training or particular skill she becomes a bail enforcement agent, chasing after Vinnie's highest stakes bail jumper: Joe Morelli, a former vice cop who is wanted for murder, who also happened to seduce and dump Stephanie back in high school after taking her virginity.
In the midst of the chase, Stephanie has to deal with her meddling family, a problematic tendency of witnesses who die when she gets too close, and lessons in bounty hunting from the mysterious Ranger (Daniel Sunjata). When she finally catches up to Morelli, she realizes that the case against him doesn't add up and that the old flame from their school days may just be rekindling.
In an October 2010 interview, author Janet Evanovich stated that TriStar Pictures had purchased the rights to her novel thirteen years previously, and the film had been in development hell since that time. When asked about the status of the movie, Evanovich commented, "Hard to believe they've been sitting on this multi-million dollar franchise for all these years but go figure." In February 2010, Variety announced that Katherine Heigl had been cast to play Stephanie Plum. In April 2010, Lions Gate Entertainment announced that they had acquired distribution rights, would co-produce with Sidney Kimmel Entertainment and Lakeshore Entertainment (which had acquired the rights from Columbia), and Julie Anne Robinson (The Last Song) would direct.
The film adaptation was produced by Tom Rosenberg for Lakeshore Entertainment, with Katherine Heigl playing the role of Stephanie Plum. The production was shot in metropolitan Pittsburgh from July to early September 2010. Principal photography began the week of July 12, 2010, in the borough of Ambridge in suburban Beaver County, and continued in six different locations in the town. Pittsburgh's Central Northside neighborhood as well as the recently shuttered UPMC facility in the inner suburb of Braddock, doubled for the book's setting of Trenton, New Jersey, neighborhoods and government buildings. Establishing shot of bridge overlooking Trenton, New Jersey was filmed in Kittanning, Pennsylvania.
The film was released on January 27, 2012.
One for the Money was universally panned by critics. Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a rating of 2% based on 54 reviews.
A. O. Scott of The New York Times gives the film a score of 15 describing Debbie Reynolds’s performance as Stephanie’s grandmother as the one mildy interesting thing about the film. Otherwise he criticized the film for "lackadaisical pacing, by-the-numbers performances, irritating music and drab visual texture" and he calls it part of "the cultural decline of cinema" where in the past he would have compared it to a bad made for TV movie, but nowadays television is better than the mediocrity of this film. Peter Travers of Rolling Stone Magazine confesses to enjoying mysteries, and says Janet Evanovich "hit paydirt" when she created the character of Stephanie Plum, but criticizes the screenwriters for sucking "the Evanovich talent and energy from every syllable of dialogue" and calls the direction clueless, and says that Evanovich deserved better. He criticizes Heigl as "blazingly miscast" and the casting of Irish actor O'Mara as an Italian cop. Travers gives the film zero stars out of four.
Despite the poor reception, author Janet Evanovich was delighted with how the movie turned out and did some joint interviews with Katherine Heigl to promote the film. Evanovich stated that she would now envision Heigl as Stephanie when writing the character.
The film debuted at #3 behind The Grey and Underworld: Awakening with $11.5 million on its opening weekend. One for the Money grossed $26.4 million in North America and $10.4 million globally to a total of $36.8 million worldwide, below its $40 million budget.
 Katherine Heigl received a Razzie nomination for Worst Actress
Recently divorced and desperate for a job following a string of misfortunes, 30-year-old Stephanie Plum (Katherine Heigl) goes to work at her cousin's bail-bond business, and begins investigating her first case. On the plus side, Stephanie proves to be a resourceful employee with a skill for ferreting out the truth; on the minus side, her first case is that of a Trenton, N.J., cop who broke her heart in high school and now stands accused of murder. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All One for the Money Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 91&nbsp;mins
