The Factory is a 2011 thriller film, directed by Morgan O'Neill and starring John Cusack, Mae Whitman, Dallas Roberts, Mageina Tovah, Cindy Sampson, and Jennifer Carpenter. Distribution of the film is through the Warner Bros. corporation.
Mike Fletcher (John Cusack), is a New York detective working on the streets of Buffalo, New York. He’s a policeman who doesn’t let go until he gets his man. Mike and his partner Kelsey Walker (Jennifer Carpenter) are on the hunt for a serial killer who is preying on local prostitutes. The investigation is ordered to be shut down, until the serial killer strikes for the first time in 3 years. Mike goes home to have thanksgiving dinner with his wife Shelly (Sonya Walger), his son, and daughter Abby (Mae Whitman). The serial killer, Gary (Dallas Roberts), meets up with nurse Darryl at a parking lot and asks him to get him the medications he has written on a list and threatens about making his raping of a patient public if he doesn't. As Mike hunts the serial killer down, Abby has a fight with Shelly and runs away from home to meet up with her boyfriend Tad (Michael Trevino). Abby goes to the diner where Tad works at so she can spend some time with her boyfriend, Darryl is sitting at the same diner waiting for Gary to show up. While Tad has a fight with Abby and breaks up with her, Darryl hands over the medications to Gary, whom appears to have a cut on his forehead; When Gary is leaving he spots Abby alone on the street. Abby approaches the car and as she realizes Tad is watching she leaves with Gary.
Mike manages to retrieve an ATM video that provides him with the license plate of the serial killers car. As the police breach into the home of the serial killer Mike finds out the serial killer stole the license plates of another man to cover up his steps. Shelly calls Mike and tells him that their daughter has gone missing. Mike and Kelsey head to his house and Mike calms Shelly down while Kelsey is on the phone. Shelly tells Mike she has called all of Abby's friends and talked to their moms and no one has seen her, not even Tad. Next morning Tad shows up at the office and hands over Abby's coat and cellphone explaining they had a fight and that she left with a man in a dark sedan. Tad later recognizes Darryl and explains he had been at the diner the previous night. Mike and Kelsey go to the hospital where Darryl works at and Mike interrogates him and ends up physically assaulting him. Next day Mike breaks into Darryl's house and finds a list of medications written on a paper that belongs to a company, he proceeds to call the company to question about Darryl. Later he returns to the hospital to have a word with Darryl. While he waits he has a brief conversation with Gary who is a cook at the hospital. Darryl's boss (Maxim Roy), explains she sent Darryl home after the incident the day prior and had not heard from him since which is not normal of Darryl. Mike and the head nurse talk about the list he found at Darryl's which is overheard by Gary.
Abby is welcomed home by Gary and is presented to Crystal (Cindy Sampson) and Brittany (Mageina Tovah), two other girls that he has taken home and kept alive to have babies with them. The girls call Gary daddy and seem to have been psychologically traumatized. Abby soon realizes their allegiance is with Gary and acts just like them to stay safe. Mike has a word with Emma (Ksenia Solo), a prostitute to find more information regarding the serial killer. Emma tells Mike that a particular prostitute had a fight with a man and hit him with a bottle on the forehead. Mike and Kelsey track down Darryl to a hotel, where he is found dead, and substantial evidence has been planted as to make Darryl look like he is the serial killer. Outside of the hotel Mike gets a call from the company he called, and they inform him Darryl does not work for them. Mike finds out the company is a catering service company, at which point Mike connects the dots and realizes that Gary, the cook at the hospital, is truly the serial killer.
Gary invites Brittany to have dinner with him upstairs as he does once a week with one of the girls as a reward. Abby then touches Gary's radio and as Brittany is about to call Gary to tell on her she pushes the radio over to Brittany. Gary gets mad at Brittany and tries to drown her, but Abby saves her by telling him shes pregnant. Gary then takes Brittany out of the water and tells Abby since Brittany can't make it to dinner, she will replace her. Abby then tries to take Gary's cellphone to call her father and Gary finds out so Abby stabs him. Gary gets mad and after beating Abby up puts her back in the basement, and then rips out the circuit breaker which makes the house lights go out. Mike and Kelsey arrive shortly after and go into Gary's home. Mike finds 3 babies in incubators in a room and later the door to the basement in which Abby is held captive. He manages to talk to Abby who tells him the key to the basement is worn by Gary around his neck. Mike goes to hunt Gary while Kelsey stays at the basement door to make sure no one else goes into it.
Mike goes to the second floor of the house and is attacked by a German Shepherd, after he knocks the dog unconscious he walks into a room at the end of the hallway. Gary descends from the attic and goes into the same room Mike is in, at which point Mike shoots him. Kelsey goes upstairs and finds Gary badly injured and Mike on the floor. Mike gets up and tells Gary he won't make it. Kelsey then picks up Gary's gun and shoots Mike. At this point Mike has flashbacks and realizes Kelsey had been working for Gary all along, calling him at different times to make sure he was one step ahead of the game. It is explained Kelsey is the first girl Gary took. They fell in love and tried having kids but she was infertile, which is why Gary takes girls from the streets and has babies with them for him and Kelsey to raise. Kelsey is ready to kill Mike but then finds out Abby is pregnant. As this happens Mike reaches his second gun and as they both get ready to shoot, the camera pans out to the outside of the house and a gun shot is heard.
The door to the basement is opened and Kelsey descends and tells Abby it is all over. The police arrive and the paramedics help Abby, Crystal's newborn baby whom Abby had to help deliver and Kelsey. The police find Gary and Mike dead and the babies have gone missing. The movie then fast forwards a few days and Kelsey is seen driving to a new house which she is going to buy to raise her new family. She calls Mike's home and leaves a message apologizing to the family since she did not show up at the funeral and congratulating Abby on her impending motherhood. As the movie ends Abby plays the recording over and over and realizes Kelsey is raising the babies and is therefore responsible for her father's death. The movie ends as Kelsey holds her baby in front of her new house while grinning.
The film is produced by Joel Silver of Silver Pictures and Susan Downey and David Gambino of Dark Castle Entertainment. The screenplay is written by O'Neill and Paul Leyden. The film was shot in Montreal, Quebec. Shooting finished in mid 2008. The movie was originally intended for a December 2011 release but was later pushed back.
The Factory was scheduled to be released on December 19, 2011 but was never officially released by Dark Castle Entertainment. Dark Castle Entertainment was considering a DVD release for the third quarter of 2012, but the movie was finally released on February 19, 2013.
His daughter locked away in a subterranean dungeon by a dangerous zealot, Detective Mike Fletcher (John Cusack) races to find her in that crucial 48 hours after she was abducted in this relentlessly tense thriller from director Morgan O'Neill. Jennifer Carpenter and Mae Whitman co-star. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Factory Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 104&nbsp;mins
