The Apparition is a 2012 American supernatural horror film written and directed by Todd Lincoln and starring Ashley Greene, Sebastian Stan, Tom Felton, Julianna Guill and Luke Pasqualino.
May 21, 1973: Six people are conducting The Charles Experiment; a parapsychological experiment. They stare at a drawing of a deceased man, Charles Reamer, and with all of them concentrating at the same time, they hope to be able to summon his spirit into the room.
Years later, four college students, Patrick (Tom Felton), Lydia (Julianna Guill), Greg (Luke Pasqualino), and Ben (Sebastian Stan) attempt to recreate the Charles Experiment on a larger scale by using modern technology to amplify their concentration over 400 times the original. During the experiment, something attacks the students and pulls Lydia into the wall.
Some time later, Ben and his girlfriend Kelly (Ashley Greene) are living in a nearly empty subdivision along with their neighbors Mike (Rick Gomez), his young daughter Maggie (Anna Clark) and their dog Pepper. One evening, they discover strange burn marks on their counters. That night Kelly awakens to find both doors wide open, even though they had locked them. They decide to change the locks and install surveillance cameras.
The following day their neighbor's dog, Pepper, wanders into the house, walks into the laundry room and collapses. Kelly and Ben take her to the vet, where she dies. Returning home, Kelly notices the floor in the laundry room has begun peeling. She removes some of the linoleum and finds a large amount of mold and spores, Ben finds even more in a crawlspace.
Later, Ben finds 36 "Urgent" emails from Patrick in his inbox that first inform him of a new attempt at the Charles Experiment, followed by a warning that "containment failed" and finally "you are in danger". Attachments to the emails include footage of the new experiment, this time amplifying their signal to that of 4000 people.
Kelly calls for Ben and shows him her closet, in which all of the clothes have been trashed. They begin to hear noises throughout the house. Ben talks Kelly into camping in the yard and agrees to keep watch overnight. During the night, Ben leaves his watch post in the tent to investigate a noise. While he is gone, three of the camera feeds to the surveillance monitor go blank. The last remaining camera falls to the ground and begins to move towards the sleeping Kelly.
The next day, while Kelly is gone, Ben finds another large chunk of mold growing. He prods at it with a broom, causing it to break open and reveal a figurine inside that had been used during the previous experiment. Later, Kelly discovers Ben's equipment from the experiment, including a recording of Lydia's disappearance. She confronts Ben, who admits to taking part in it. After witnessing another appearance by the apparition, they go to a hotel, but they're attacked there as well and flee.
While on the run, they receive a call from Patrick and meet with him. Once together, Patrick explains that the initial experiment enabled a malevolent spirit entity to enter their world and further attempts to contain it have failed. Patrick also mentions he has built a room surrounded by a negative current that he believes protects him from the spirit.
They return to Kelly and Ben's house to try a new experiment to contain the entity, this time using the city's power to simulate the power of 400,000 people. While setting up, Kelly becomes trapped in the laundry room with the spirit, but it disappears. During the experiment, the house begins to shake and break apart, then abruptly stops.
While Kelly and Ben are cleaning out the house, a door behind him opens and Patrick is pulled into the darkness and vanishes. They return to find his chair knocked over and empty. Looking for him, they find various objects merged with parts of the house that were normal seconds before. Unable to find Patrick, they leave to get to the safety chamber in Patrick's house.
Inside Patrick's house, they hear Patrick's personal log being played back, including information about the members of the original experiment. Of the original six, two died, one committed suicide and the other three simply disappeared. After entering and closing the safety chamber cage, the lights go out, and when they come back Ben has disappeared. Kelly exits the chamber and finds Ben's contorted corpse beyond the door. She leaves the house and sees her truck being absorbed into the ground as well.
As Kelly wanders aimlessly, Patrick's narration explains that the first experiment served as a beacon for the entity, while the second one helped it cross into their world. He further explains that it gets stronger with each person it claims, and that it will wear its victims down until they're too weak to resist in which she is attacked by a spirit.
As day breaks, Kelly's wandering leads to an empty Costco. Inside, she walks to the camping section, enters a tent, zips the door closed, and waits. Having given up resisting, a number of hands appear from behind and slowly grab hold of her as the movie cuts to black.
In May 2009, Todd Lincoln was named as the director and screenwriter of the project. Joel Silver cast Twilight actress Ashley Greene for the lead role of Kelly on November 5, 2009. On December 9, Lincoln announced via Twitter that pre-production had begun on the project, which is being financed by Dark Castle Entertainment. On January 26, 2010, Friday the 13th actress Julianna Guill was cast for the role of Lydia. Harry Potter star Tom Felton was cast on February 8, and was joined one week later by Romanian Captain America: The First Avenger actor Sebastian Stan and British actor Luke Pasqualino. Filming began on February 26, 2010 in Berlin, Germany, with other scenes being shot in Los Angeles. On March 25, Greene shot some scenes in Palmdale, California.  The project marks Lincoln's directorial debut. Silver will produce with Andrew Rona and Alex Heineman.
The film was released on August 24, 2012 in 810 theaters.
The Apparition was heavily panned by critics, and has an overall approval rating of 4% on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 51 reviews, with an average rating of 2.210. The consensus says, "The Apparition fails to offer anything original, isn't particularly scary, and offers so little in the way of dramatic momentum that it's more likely to put you to sleep than thrill you." On Metacritic, the film holds a score of 18100, indicating "Overwhelming dislike". Brian Orndof from Blu-Ray.com said, "The trailer for 'The Apparition' contained more story than the picture it was promoting. In fact, I think the trailer for 'The Apparition' is actually more of a movie than 'The Apparition.'" Mark Dujsik agreed, saying, "It's so terrible that there might actually be more tension in the numbing first act of monotonous chores than there is in anything that follows." IndieWire called the film a "hauntingly inept chiller," saying that the film "makes no attempts to transcend or even enliven its genre." RedEye Chicago called the film "hilariously non-scary."
The Apparition is a box office bomb. The film only came in at #12 on its opening weekend at the box office, with a gross of $2.84 million. According to Box Office Mojo, "With the unusually-low theater count and a practically non-existent marketing effort, it's clear Warner Bros. was trying to bury this movie, and they appear to have succeeded." As of November 2012, it grossed $4.9 million domestically and $9.6 million worldwide. The film still had international release dates throughout December 2012; however, it appears not to have recouped its budget.
Tom Felton (the Harry Potter film series), Ashley Greene (the Twilight Saga series), and Sebastian Stan headline this tale of two young college students who are conducting a paranormal experiment when they unleash a terrifying supernatural force that thrives on fear. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Apparition Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 82&nbsp;mins
