Seeking Justice, also known as Justice, and formerly known as The Hungry Rabbit Jumps, is a 2011 action film starring Nicolas Cage, January Jones and Guy Pearce. The film was directed by Roger Donaldson and produced by Tobey Maguire, Ram Bergman and James D. Stern. Filming took place in New Orleans, Louisiana. The first trailer was released in September 2011.
In New Orleans, Will Gerard (Nicolas Cage) is a humble English teacher at Rampart High School. Will's best friend Jimmy (Harold Perrineau) also works at the school. Will's wife Laura (January Jones) is a musician who is in a local orchestra. One night, after a performance, Laura is beaten and brutally raped by a stranger named Hodge (Alex Van).
At the hospital, while Will is waiting for news about Laura’s condition, Jimmy tells a distraught Will that he's confident that the rapist will be found. Will is approached by a man who calls himself Simon (Guy Pearce). Simon tells Will that he represents an organization that deals with people that the justice system has failed to deal with. Simon describes his group as "a few citizens seeking justice", and he tells Will that Hodge has raped other women before, and was paroled three weeks prior to his attack on Laura.
Simon proposes an intriguing offer; in exchange for a favor from Will, Simon will arrange to have a complete stranger make Hodge pay for Laura's rape, in order to save Will and Laura the undue suffering of a drawn-out trial, because a drawn-out trial would make Laura suffer even more than she already has by repeatedly forcing her to relive the rape, and be traumatized by defense attorneys. Distraught and grief-stricken, Will consents to the deal. After Hodge is killed, a picture of Hodge's body, and the medallion that Hodge took from Laura during the rape, are sent to Will as proof that Hodge has been killed. The organization's code phrase is "the hungry rabbit jumps."
Six months later, Simon returns, and he asks Will to follow a woman and her two children to the zoo and look out for a man, and if Will sees the man, to call a number attached to a picture immediately. Will agrees to follow the lady and her two children, hoping to, in that way, fulfill his debt. After Will does that, Simon continues to call Will, asking him to continue to follow that man, telling Will that the man is a sex offender. At first, Will declines, but seeing that he has no choice as Simon promised to exact revenge if he doesn't obey, Will agrees, and Simon assigns Will to kill the man on a pedestrian walkway that's under a high overpass, by "accidentally" bumping him off the walkway to his death, which would make it look like suicide.
Will goes to the walkway, but instead of killing the man, Will decides to see if the man has any answers about Simon. The man, who is already paranoid for some reason, becomes suspicious that Will is trying to kill him, so he throws his bicycle at Will, and the bicycle falls into the traffic below. As they struggle, the man falls off the walkway as Will tries to save him. The man lands, and is hit by a truck. Will, fearing for his life, goes home, where Detective Rudeski (Joe Chrest) and Detective Green (Marcus Lyle Brown) arrest him and accuse him of murdering the man, who the detectives say is named Alan Marsh. At the station, Will can't get Green and Rudeski to believe anything he says.
Green and Rudeski's boss, Lieutenant Durgan (Xander Berkeley), wants to talk to Will alone. Durgan asks Will to play a game, where Will must complete sentences. After a few rounds, Durgan asks, "The hungry white rabbit..." to which Will responds "jumps," signifying his connection to Simon's organization. Durgan lets Will free, telling him that he has 24 hours to get out of the city before Simon and his two men Scar (Irone Singleton) and Cancer (Wayne Pére) come looking for him. Will runs, but he's looking for answers. He goes to a memorial for Alan, and learns that Alan is not a sex offender – he's actually an award-winning investigative reporter for the New Orleans Post, and he was investigating the vigilante organization. Now Will knows why Simon wanted Alan dead. After Will leaves, Simon, Scar, and Cancer find Will, and chase him. Will escapes from Simon and Cancer, but Scar chases Will out onto a busy street, where Scar is killed by a SUV that hits him and drags him a short distance.
Will looks for Alan's work at a storage facility that Alan uses. Will finds a DVD describing some of the people in the group, along with their missions. When Will tells Laura what's going on, she tells Will that if he was attacked, she would've done the same thing. Will then tells Laura his whereabouts, and advises her to stay away from the cops, and anyone else who's asking questions.
Will learns that Jimmy is part of the organization, and then learns that Simon's real name is Eugene Cook. Jimmy joined the organization years ago, after his brother was murdered, and the cops were unable to find the killer. Will calls Cook, and sends him a copy of the DVD, outraged at its implications. Cook agrees to a trade where Will would receive security camera footage proving his innocence in Alan's death as he was acting out of self-defense, in exchange for the DVD. Will agrees, and they agree to meet at the Louisiana Superdome, during a monster truck show.
Upon meeting at the dome, Cook lets Will know that Laura has been kidnapped as an extra incentive to make Will give up the DVD. Jimmy, Cancer, and a man called Sideburns (Dikran Tulaine) are holding Laura. They go to the abandoned mall next door, where Laura is being held hostage. The mall has been abandoned since Hurricane Katrina. Will gives Cook the DVD, but Cook reneges on the deal, saying that Will and Laura will both be killed so there will be no threats to the organization.
Cook says that what the organization does is too important to be threatened. Cook orders Will and Laura to be shot. Just as Cancer is about to pull the trigger on Laura, Jimmy fatally shoots Cancer, and Will forces Sideburns down an inactive escalator, and then through the glass at the bottom of the escalator. Sideburns is killed when a chunk of the glass becomes impaled in his neck.
Cook is angry at Jimmy, and Jimmy says that Cook promised not to hurt Will and Laura. Jimmy says that they didn't get into the organization to kill innocent people. Cook and Jimmy exchange gunfire, until Cook kills Jimmy with two shots to the chest. Laura is running, with a gun in her hand. Will climbs back up the escalator to try to find Laura. Cook finds Laura, and throws her into a glass display case, causing her to drop the gun. Will starts beating Cook up. Cook turns the tables on Will, and they both fall off of a walkway and onto another escalator, rolling down to the bottom of it. Cook stands up, and aims his gun at Will. Suddenly, Laura, who has grabbed the gun that Cook forced her to drop, and she shoots Cook six times, killing Cook.
Happy to be alive, Will and Laura walk back up the escalator. Durgan arrives, asking who killed Cook. Will responds that it was him, but Durgan says that the way he sees it, the dead guys killed each other. There was no one else there.
With both DVDs in hand, Will clears his name, and he decides to follow up on Alan's work by giving the DVD to Gibbs (Mike Pniewski), a high-ranking reporter at the New Orleans Post. Thanking him, Gibbs says "The hungry rabbit jumps, eh?" That indicates to a surprised Will that Gibbs is in the organization, as Will turns and stares at him.
The film opened at #27 at the US box office, taking $249,912 during its first weekend. Seeking Justice has currently grossed $12.4 million worldwide.
Seeking Justice has received negative reviews from critics, currently holding a 24% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 66 reviews. The consensus states: "Seeking Justice is nothing more than a typical potboiler with another phoned-in performance from Nicolas Cage."
A beloved high-school teacher empowers a group of vigilantes to exact revenge against the criminal who attacked his wife, but he begins to regret his decision when the clandestine crime fighters demand that he kill a man in return. Will Gerard (Nicolas Cage) and his wife Laura (January Jones) were just a typical happy couple until the night a shocking act of violence left them feeling victimized and vulnerable. Later, as Laura begins her slow recovery in the hospital, a concerned stranger (Guy Pearce) approaches Will with an offer to save them the suffering of a drawn-out trial by promptly dispatching his wife's assailant. Though the help he offers is free of charge, the stranger makes it clear that he may call on Will to repay the favor sometime in the future. When that day comes and Will realizes the true price of revenge is too high for him to pay, the men who once agreed to help him suddenly become his worst enemies. Jennifer Carpenter and Harold Perrineau Jr. co-star. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Seeking Justice Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 105&nbsp;mins
