The Fields is a 2011 American suspense thriller directed by Tom Mattera and Dave Mazzoni. The film is touted as being based on true events. The film stars Cloris Leachman and Tara Reid. Filming wrapped in October 2009, and the film played in festivals in Fall 2011, winning several awards to date.
The film takes place in a small Pennsylvania town in 1973, and tells the story of a young boy (Joshua Ormond) and his family (Tara Reid, Faust Checho, Cloris Leachman) as they are terrorized by an unseen presence in the surrounding fields.
As a young boy, Steven finds himself dealing with a very difficult home life, as his parents are constantly at odds. As a result of the deteriorating marriage, Steven spends a lot of time with his grandparents on their farm, where, soon after his arrival, an unseen presence begins terrorizing them while using the massive cornfields surrounding the house to remain hidden.
The film is being produced by Faust Checho with Mr. Big Productions, in association with MazWa Productions. Tommy Lee Wallace is attached as an associate producer. Production spanned six weeks, throughout September and October 2009, and was shot on location in the Pocono Mountains region in Bartonsville, Pennsylvania and in Kunkletown, Pennsylvania. The film is also shot in one of the oldest amusement parks in America, Bushkill Park, originally built in 1920's.
The film was anticipated to be released in late 2011, it was finally released on April 24, 2012 in the USA on DVD and Blu-Ray by Breaking Glass Pictures.
A young boy goes to live with his grandparents while his mother and father fight to save their failing marriage, and makes a horrifying discovery in the corn field behind their house during the Manson Family trials. Warned by his protective grandmother (Oscar-winner Cloris Leachman) to stay away from the sprawling fields, young Steven (Joshua Ormond) nevertheless strays into the stalks and sees something he will never forget. Meanwhile, as the nightly newscasts offer all the lurid details of the Manson murders, something begins to stir in the corn field. By the time the family dogs disappear and the threat becomes real, it's already too late to run, and Steven must face his greatest fear head on. Tara Reid co-stars. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 98&nbsp;mins
