The Whistleblower is a 2010 thriller film directed by Larysa Kondracki, written by Kondracki and Eilis Kirwan, starring Rachel Weisz. Inspired by actual events, the film tells the story of Kathryn Bolkovac, and premiered at the 2010 Toronto International Film Festival. It was distributed theatrically in the United States by Samuel Goldwyn Films in August 2011.
Kathryn Bolkovac (Rachel Weisz) is a police officer from Lincoln, Nebraska who accepts an offer to work with the U.N. International Police in post-war Bosnia at a U.K. company called Democra Security. Upon fighting for the trial for a Muslim woman suffering from domestic abuse and succeeding, Kathryn is made head of the department of gender affairs. She becomes involved in the case of a young Ukrainian woman named Raya, who had recently been sold by her aunt's husband to a sex trafficking ring. She escapes and Kathryn sends her to a women's shelter specifically set up for the victims of sexual slavery. Through Raya's case, Kathryn is able to uncover a wide-scale sexual slavery and human-trafficking ring that various international personnel, including that of the U.S., have participated in. Furthermore, when she brings the scandal to the attention of the U.N., she discovers that they have covered it up in order to protect lucrative defense and security contracts. Kathryn finds allies in Madeleine Rees (Vanessa Redgrave) and Peter Ward (David Strathairn), authority figures who support her investigation.
Kathryn is soon fired from her job due to her knowing too much about the scandal and her reluctance to stop the investigation. Meanwhile, Raya had been captured again and is later found dead, only pushing Kathryn even more to bring the scandal to light. She and Ward eventually capture evidence of an official admitting to the scandal, and she brings it to the BBC. It is said in the ending credits that following Kathryn's departure, a number of peacekeepers were sent home, though none faced criminal charges because of immunity laws. It is also noted that the U.S. continues to do business with private contractors like Democra Security, including ones worth billions of dollars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
The film is a Canada–Germany coproduction. Shooting began in September, 2009. It was shot mostly in Romania, with a few key scenes shot in Toronto.
Rottentomatoes.com gave the film a 74%, with a rating of 6.510. Out of 109 reviews, 81 gave it a positive review. Metacritic gave the film a 59 out of 100, with critics giving it both a positive and mixed review.
Inspired by real events, writerdirector Larysa Kondracki's intense docudrama tells the tale of an American policewoman who uncovers evidence of human trafficking while assisting a U.N. peacekeeping mission in Bosnia. Nebraska cop Kathy Bolkovac (Rachel Weisz) is caught in the middle of a vicious custody battle with her ex-husband when she seizes the opportunity to make a quick 100,000 dollars tax-free by spending six months in Bosnia as a U.N. peacekeeper. Shortly after Kathy arrives in Bosnia, Human Rights Commission head Madeleine Rees (Vanessa Redgrave) promotes her to the U.N.'s Gender Office, where she begins studying sexual-assault cases. But when Kathy discovers that her fellow peacekeepers are involved in a human-trafficking ring, the ensuing controversy makes her the target of some very powerful -- and incredibly ruthless -- people. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Whistleblower Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 112&nbsp;mins
