Final Destination 5 is a 2011 American supernatural horror film written by Eric Heisserer and directed by Steven Quale. It is the fifth installment in the Final Destination film franchise. It stars Nicholas D'Agosto, Emma Bell, Miles Fisher, Arlen Escarpeta,and David Koechner.
The motion picture's world premiere was August 4, 2011 at the Fantasia Festival in Montréal, Canada. It was released in Real D 3D and digital IMAX 3D.
Sam Lawton, is on his way to a company retreat located in a town named North Bay, New York with his co-workers. While Rolland Coach Line Bus 1282 makes it's way to the North Bay Bridge, a log truck operating for Tagert Logging passes by, foreshadowing the Route 23 pile-up from Final Destination 2 and the close call explosions for Tagert Theatres in The Final Destination. The bus then passes by a sign that reads DANGER: CONSTRUCTION and a picture of a bridge. Part of the picture of the bridge is scratched off, hinting that part of the North Bay Bridge will collapse into the cold waters of the North Bay. The bus number, 1282, gives another hint of the North Bay Bridge collapse. Adding the digits together, which is 1+2+8+2, equals 13, the number known to foreshadow unluckiness. While Bus 1282 crosses the North Bay Bridge, Sam suffers a premonition that the bridge will partially collapse, killing everyone and himself except for Molly. Panicked, he persuades his ex-girlfriend Molly Harper, his friends Nathan Sears and Peter Friedkin, Peter's girlfriend Candice Hooper, his boss Dennis Lapman, Candice's rival Olivia Castle and coworker Isaac Palmer to leave the bridge before it partially collapses just like in Sam's premonition. FBI agent Jim Block doesn't believe that Sam was responsible for the bridge collapse, but promises to keep his eye on him. Following the memorial service, local coroner William Bludworth mysteriously warns the survivors that they cheated Death. Believing this to be just some nonsense, they ignore his warnings and move on.
Later, Candice goes to gymnastics practice with Peter, but a chain reaction causes her to fall off the uneven bars and snap her spine, leaving Peter devastated. The next day, Isaac is killed when his head is crushed by a falling Budai statue during an acupuncture session at a Chinese spa. Bludworth, who has been present for both deaths so far, tells the remaining survivors that if they wish to cheat Death, they must kill someone who was never meant to die on the bridge, and thereby claim their remaining lifespan. Sam and Molly then try to save Olivia at the eye surgery clinic, but are unable to after she falls onto a car's windshield. Later, after Sam and Molly studied Death's design, they notice that Nathan is next on Death's list.
Meanwhile, Nathan, who has returned to the plant, accidentally kills his antagonistic co-worker Roy Carson during an argument between the two when he shoves him in the path of a lifting hook, impaling his head. Nathan relays this information to the remaining survivors, who suggest that it means Nathan was successfully able to claim Roy's remaining lifespan and thus was skipped over. When Dennis arrives to question Nathan about the incident, he is suddenly killed when a stray wrench is launched by a belt sander, penetrating his head.
That evening, Sam works at the restaurant, becoming very cautious as he moves around, trying to prevent a fatal accident. After his work is done, Sam asks his mentor to allow the restaurant for him for the night. He allows Sam to have the restaurant to himself for a date with Molly. Peter, who has now been driven paranoid and insane by Candice's death, interrupts the date in order to inform them that he nearly pushed a stranger in front of a truck after convincing himself that he would be able to kill someone else in order to take their lifespan; subsequently, he has decided to kill Molly and take her remaining lifespan for himself. After Peter draws a gun and fires shots, Sam and Molly both escape to the restaurant's kitchen. Nearby outside, Agent Block overhears the shots and enters the restaurant. He arrives during the confrontation, but is shot and killed by Peter. Believing he is now safe from Death for taking Block's lifespan, he decides to kill both Molly and Sam to remove any witnesses. After some violent struggling, Sam kills Peter with a meat spit before he can harm Molly.
Two weeks later, Sam and Molly are boarding a plane to Paris, France. As they are taking their seats, a fight breaks out between two passengers, revealed to be Carter Horton and Alex Browning, resulting in their removal from the plane with the other passengers. The plane that Sam and Molly are boarding is revealed to be Volee Airlines Flight 180. In mid-air, before realizing they are too late to save themselves, both are killed in the resulting accident.
Meanwhile, at Roy's memorial, Nathan learns from a co-worker, John, that Roy's autopsy had revealed that Roy had a brain aneurysm, and that doctors said he would be dead "any day now". As Nathan starts thinking that perhaps he had not saved himself, the landing gear from Flight 180 crashes through the roof of the building and crushes him, setting off the events of the first four films.
Alan Horn, the head of Warner Bros., confirmed at ShoWest in March 2010 that Final Destination 5 was in works at ShoWest. Producer Craig Perry later added that the film will be shot in 3D. Eric Heisserer was announced as screenwriter in April 2010. The studio initially picked August 26, 2011 as the release date but later changed it to August 12, 2011. In June 2010, New Line Cinema announced that Steven Quale would direct.
In August 2010, actor and musician Miles Fisher was the first to be cast in Final Destination 5. Three days after Fisher's casting, Arlen Escarpeta, joined the film. In late August 2010 Nicholas D'Agosto and Ellen Wroe were. One day later, Tony Todd, from the first three installments, joined the film.
On August 30, 2010, David Koechner and P. J. Byrne were announced to have joined the cast. On September 2, Emma Bell was cast as the female lead; Molly. In mid-September both Jacqueline MacInnes Wood and Courtney B. Vance joined the main cast.
Location filming returned to Vancouver, where parts of the first three films were shot. Principal photography took place between September 13 to December 14, 2010. Producers have said that this installment would be darker and more suspenseful in style to the original film, rather than the almost comedic route of the fourth film. Final Destination 3 star Chelan Simmons revealed that the opening scene would be filmed on the Lions' Gate Bridge in Vancouver.
The soundtrack to Final Destination 5 was released physically on the 16th of August in 2011, four days after the release of the film. The soundtrack contains 19 tracks composed by Brian Tyler, music composer of The Final Destination. It is also the second Final Destination soundtrack album to be released.
Commercial songs from film, but not on soundtrack
The album contains 19 cues composed by Brian Tyler, omitting commercially released songs that were featured in the film.
Final Destination 5 ranked #3 at the weekend box office with $18.4 million behind Rise of the Planet of the Apes ($27.5 million), which held the top spot for two weeks, and The Help ($25.5 million). It was also the third biggest Final Destination opening to date behind 2009's The Final Destination ($27.4 million) and 2006's Final Destination 3 ($19.1 million). Final Destination 5 grossed $42,587,643 domestically, and $115,300,000 overseas, for a worldwide total of $157,887,643, becoming the second highest grossing film in the franchise.
Final Destination 5 was released on DVD and Blu-ray on December 27, 2011. The Blu-ray comes in two forms. The movie-only edition and the Blu-rayDVDUltraViolet edition. A Blu-ray 3D edition was released exclusively through Best Buy. The film was released in the UK on December 26, 2011, however only the Blu-ray special edition contained the 3D cut of the film. An ultraviolet copy was available in all formats.
A tie-in music video was released featuring Miles Fisher, who portrays Peter in Final Destination 5. Starring the entire main cast of Final Destination 5 and also featuring Fisher's original song "New Romance", the music video parodies '90s sitcom Saved by the Bell. Fisher, dressed up as Zack Morris from the show, flirts and dances with Jacqueline Wood at Bayside High School as Ellen Wroe is crushed by a falling locker (which, along with the other deaths, no one seems to care about). They later go to The Max restaurant, where Nicholas D'Agosto is impaled through the chest by the sharp end of a wall after a failed attempt at flirting with Emma Bell. Miles then shows up at Emma's house to catch her taking pills (a parody of the famous episode of Saved by the Bell), moments before she trips and gets pencils lodged in her face and falls out the window. Later at The Max, P.J. Byrne causes a soda to spill on the jukebox. The top of David Koechner's head is cut off by a stray record, while pandemonium ensues as records fly everywhere (which Fisher and Wood, who are dancing together, don't seem to notice). After P.J. Byrne is electrocuted by a neon sign, Fisher and Wood are hit by a random bus with the words "Final Destination High" written on the side.
The film received generally positive reviews. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 61% of 128 critics have given the film a positive review, with an average rating of 5.8 out of 10 and an audience rating of 51%, making it the first and as yet only installment of the series to garner a "fresh" certification. It is currently the highest rated film in the series on the site. The site's consensus is, "It's still only for the gore-thirsty faithful, but Final Destination 5 represents a surprising return to form for the franchise". On Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average score out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, gives the film a score of 50 based on 24 reviews. The film was criticized for failing to bring anything new to the franchise, weak character development, and average dialogue. Though the reception to acting has been largely mixed, most positive reviews praised the film for being an improvement over the previous installment in the series, The Final Destination. Reviews also praised the use of 3D, the visual effects, the inventive death scenes, the return of suspense as opposed to a campy feel, and for both the premonition disaster sequence and the ending.
Richard Roeper stated in his review "From the opening credits to the final kill this film displays a great use of 3-D." Todd Gilchrist of Boxoffice Magazine has declared the film in his review for being "the best 3D horror movie ever made." He described Final Destination 5 as "a clean, glossy thriller shot in native 3D (not post-conversion) that maximizes the technology without straining the audience's credulity or their constitutions." He also stated "Calling anything the 'best 3D horror film' has the ring of crowning the world's tallest midget, but Quale uses 3D almost shockingly well." In a review for Toronto.com, Linda Barnard has stated "this could be a case where the 3-D-shot movie is worth the extra few bucks to see".
The visual effects were praised for improving on the weak CGI from the previous installment. Betty Jo Tucker of ReelTalk Movie Reviews said in her review "The film boasts some of the best visual effects ever, especially the bridge-crumbling sequence at the beginning of the film." In his review of Final Destination 5, Roger Ebert said "...the special effects do an excellent job of beheading, incinerating, vivisecting, squishing and so on." "Final Destination 5 contain some of the most fun effects ever seen that purely enhance the thrills and bloody spills, rather than detract from them," stated Lisa Giles-Keddie from uk.real.com.
The death scenes in the film have been praised as being suspenseful, creative and shocking. Boxoffice magazine said in praise "viewers connect to both the relatable pain of everyday injury and the gory gratification of a well-constructed, larger-than-life set piece." Nj.com has said "Admitted, there is a certain inventiveness to the way director Steven Quale stages the violence." San Francisco Chronicle said that the characters are "killed in gruesome and spectacular ways." The gymnastic set piece has been praised as "anxiety-filled", "a beautiful example of successful comic suspense", "Hitchcockian edge-of-your-seat suspense", and "inventively grotesque". Film.com stated in their review "The subsequent deaths are hit-or-miss, but they all show some creative spark. Quale sets them up like a cross between a joke and a magic trick, carefully establishing crucial details."
The opening bridge collapse has garnered considerable critical praise, with many stating it as being on par with the pile up sequence from Final Destination 2. It has been said to be "one of the single best sequences of any film all year" by Boxoffice magazine. Uk.real.com stated that the opening bridge collapse sequence is "beautifully directed and choreographed". Eric D. Snider has stated in his review for Film.com that "The opening premonition is nerve-janglingly effective." The New York Post has called the bridge collapse sequence "spectacular", and Daily News has call it "terrifying". USA today has commented on the sequence "The effect is terrific and reminiscent of the bridge destruction from Mission: Impossible III." Betsy Sharkey, a Los Angeles Times film critic stated in her negative review "I will say, the bus, and the bridge it must cross, does make for a pretty incredible wham-bam opening sequence," she further adds "The big crumble is a stunner of an opener." In a review for MSN.com, Kat Murphy said "the fifth chapter starts out with a slambang catastrophe", then stated that the bridge collapse is "Skillfully orchestrated," and "this sequence is actually enhanced by 3-D: Holes in the disintegrating bridge seem to pull the gaze down -- dizzyingly -- to the river below, and jagged camera angles on hanging railings and sliding debris muddle our sense of what's up, what's down." The Hollywood Reporter praised "This film’s opening sequence is undeniably spectacular." Aaron Hillis from The Village Voice called the bridge collapse "breathtakingly staged". The Advocate stated that "Director Steve Quale and writer Heisserer stage the bridge’s collapse in swift but exacting detail." The Austin Chronicle said the bridge collapse sequence is "spectacularly gruesome".
The Advertising Standards Authority in the UK ruled that the original theatrical poster, which had been used on buses and trains during the summer, "was likely to cause fear and undue distress to children". It ruled that the advert must not appear in the original form again.
Warner Bros countered by stating that the poster "accurately reflected the content of the film in an appropriate manner without causing excessive fear or distress". They also added that the posters' dark grey and black colours were "unlikely to engage the attention of young children", and that the "surreal" image did not feature people, blood or display any real life violence.
The ASA, which had received 13 complaints, with 3 stating that their children (aged between 1 and 3) had been upset, ruled "We considered the image was likely to catch the attention of children, especially because it was shown on a poster on the Underground, where it was an untargeted medium. Because very young children might view this ad depicting violence, it was likely to cause fear and undue distress to children."
Death stalks a group of co-workers who avoid a grisly demise in a massive suspension bridge collapse after one of them experiences a terrifying premonition in the fifth installment of the popular Final Destination series. Series regular Tony Todd returns in this sequel starring David Koechner, Emma Bell, Nicholas D'Agosto, and Miles Fisher. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Final Destination 5 Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 92&nbsp;mins
