5 Days of War (also known as 5 Days of August) is a 2011 action film by Finnish director Renny Harlin. The story is about the 2008 South Ossetia war  over a Russian-backed breakaway region in Georgia, including the events leading up to the conflict.
The film was released in Georgia as 5 Days of August, and in other countries as 5 Days of War and also City on Fire.
The film starts with a brief scene in Iraq where the Georgian contingent of the coalition forces saves the life of an American reporter Thomas Anders (Rupert Friend). One year after Anders loses one of his colleagues (Heather Graham) in Iraq, he returns to Los Angeles but soon goes to Georgia on the advice of some of his friends in Tbilisi, who suspect that a large conflict is brewing. He, along with his cameraman Sebastian Ganz (Richard Coyle), delve deeper into Georgian life as conflict escalates and they get caught in the crossfire when an air raid strikes a local wedding they stumble upon. With members of the wedding party (Emmanuelle Chriqui), and the help of a Georgian soldier (Johnathon Schaech) who had earlier saved them in Iraq, their mission becomes getting their footage of an atrocity by Russian irregulars out of the country. But they find themselves faced with international apathy due to the opening of the 2008 Olympic Games. Their flight leads them to the Battle of Gori.
The film ends with a long series of testimonials from Georgian citizens who lost family members during the conflict; despite promises to the contrary, Russian forces still occupy the territory, leaving many people in Georgia displaced whose homes are either occupied or permanently destroyed.
Filming started in October 2009, in Tbilisi, the capital of Georgia. Filming took 36 days with a budget of 12 million dollars.
According to the Georgian president Mikheil Saakashvili, the film was not financed by the Georgian government, but one of the producers, David Imedashvili, said that the initial funding for the project came from a Georgian government fund. According to Georgian media the movie was financed by Koba Nakopia, a parliamentarian from the ruling United National Movement party of Georgian president Mikheil Saakashvili. Also credited as producer are director Renny Harlin, George Lascu and Mirza Davitaia, the current Georgian State Minister for "diaspora issues", who at the time of filming was the Georgian Deputy Minister, Ministry of Culture, Monument Protection and Sports.
One of the buildings of the Georgian Presidential administration was used for filming parts of the movie. Some members of the special effects team were Russian and had previously worked on Night Watch (2004 film). The military equipment and personnel used in the film were temporarily lent by the Georgian army.
Finnish actor Mikko Nousiainen, who plays the Russian villain Daniil, had been cast to play the title role in Renny Harlin's abortive project, Mannerheim.
5 Days of War has received generally poor reviews from critics. Review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes reports that 33% of critics have given the film a positive review based on 33 reviews. Metacritic gives the film score 31100 based on reviews from 14 critics. It has been poorly received by other film critics, with Bloomberg and Washington Post both giving it a one-star rating.
Anna Neistat of Human Rights Watch said that in the current political climate, the film is dangerous, as it uses selective exaggerations of Russian and South Ossetian wrongdoings, whilst totally ignoring Georgian wrongdoings against Ossetians. She further stated, that the film "portrays Russians and Ossetians as barbaric beasts and Georgians as peace angels."
5 Days of War opened in limited release in the United States on August 19, 2011 in two theatres in New York City and Washington D.C. It grossed $6,254 in its opening weekend.
5 Days of War was released on DVD (Region 2) and Blu-ray (Region B) on 13 June 2011. The DVD is a one-disc set. The Blu-ray is a one-disc set that includes DTS-HD 5.1 sound, as well as subtitles, in English, German and French.

In the midst of an intense five-day war between Russia and the Georgian Republic, a rogue American journalist, his loyal cameraman, and a desperate local woman fight to reveal the truth about the atrocities being committed against innocent civilians. Andy Garcia, Val Kilmer, Rupert Friend, and Emmanuelle Chriqui star in this explosive war drama from Die Hard 2 director Renny Harlin. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All 5 Days of War Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 113&nbsp;mins
