Barefoot Gen (はだしのゲン, Hadashi no Gen?) is a Japanese manga series by Keiji Nakazawa. Loosely based on Nakazawa's own experiences as a Hiroshima survivor, the series begins in 1945 in and around Hiroshima, Japan, where the six-year-old boy Gen Nakaoka lives with his family. After Hiroshima is destroyed by atomic bombing, Gen and other survivors are left to deal with the aftermath.
Barefoot Gen ran in several magazines, including Weekly Shōnen Jump, from 1973 to 1985. It was subsequently adapted into three live action film adaptations directed by Tengo Yamada, which were released between 1976 and 1980. Madhouse released two anime films, one in 1983 and one in 1986. In 2007, a live action television drama series adaptation aired in Japan on Fuji TV over two nights, August 10 and 11.
The story begins in Hiroshima during the final months of World War II. Six-year old Gen Nakaoka and his family live in poverty and struggle to make ends meet, but Gen's father Daikichi urges them to "live like wheat", which always grows strong, despite being trod on. Daikichi is critical of the war, and when he shows up drunk to a mandatory combat drill and backtalks to his instructor, the Nakaokas are branded as traitors and subject to harassment and discrimination by their neighbors. To restore his family's honour, Gen's older bother Koji joins the Navy against Daikichi's wishes, where he is subjected to a brutal training regime by his commanding officer. On August 6th, the atomic bomb is dropped on Hiroshima. Gen's father and siblings perish in the fires, but Gen and his mother manage to escape. The shock causes her to give premature birth; Gen's new sister is named Tomoko.
In the days following the attack, Gen and his mother witness the horrors wrought by the bomb. Hiroshima lies in ruins, and the city is full of people dead and dying from severe burns and radiation sickness. Gen meets a girl named Natsue, whose face has has been severely burned; she attempts to commit suicide, but Gen convinces her to continue living. Gen and his mother adopt an orphan named Ryuta, who by sheer coincidence looks identical to Gen's deceased younger brother Shinji. After Gen returns to their burnt-out home and retrieves the remains of his father and siblings, he and his family go to live with Kime's friend Kiyo. However, Kiyo's crotchety Mother-In-Law conspires with her grandchildren to drive the Nakaokas out.
Gen looks for work to pay the family's rent. A man hires Gen to look after his brother Seiji, who has been burnt from head to toe and lives in squalor. Though Seiji is recalcitrant at first, he warms up to Gen over time, and the boy learns Seiji is an artist who has lost the will to live because his burns have left him unable to hold a brush. With Gen's help, Seiji learns to paint with his teeth, but eventually, he dies of his wounds. On August 14th, Emperor Hirohito announces Japan's surrender over the radio, ending the war.
Following Japan's unconditional surrender, American occupation forces arrive to help the nation rebuild. Gen and Ryuta, fearing rumours they've heard about the Americans, arm themselves with a pistol they find in an abandoned weapons cache. They learn the Americans aren't as bad as they'd thought when they're given free candy, but they also witness a group of American soldiers harvesting organs from corpses for medical research. Kiyo's mother-in-law evicts the Nakaokas after Gen gets into a fight with her grandchildren, and they move into an abandoned bomb shelter. Gen and Ryuta attempt to earn money to feed Tomoko, getting involved with the local Yakuza, but after the Yakuza betray them, Ryuta kills one of them with the pistol they found, and becomes a fugitive. Later, Gen learns the Tomoko has been kidnapped. He manages to find her with the help of a classmate, only to learn that she's become ill. Tomoko dies soon after.
In December 1946, Gen is reuinted with Ryuta, who has become a juvenile delinquent, doing odd jobs for the Yakuza. He also meets Katsuko, a girl scarred by burns from the bomb. As an orphan and a hibakusha, she is subject to discrimination and cannot go to school, but Gen loans her his books and teaches her himself.
Major themes throughout the work are power, hegemony, resistance and loyalty.
Gen's family suffers as all families do in war. They must conduct themselves as proper members of society, as all Japanese are instructed in paying tribute to the Emperor. But because of a belief that their involvement in the war is due to the greed of the rich ruling class, Gen's father rejects the military propaganda and the family comes to be treated as traitors. Gen's family struggles with their bond of loyalty to each other and to a government that is willing to send teenagers on suicide missions in battle. This push and pull relationship is seen many times as Gen is ridiculed in school, mimicking his father's views on Japan's role in the war, and then is subsequently punished by his father for spouting things he learned through rote brainwashing in school.
Many of these themes are put into a much harsher perspective when portrayed alongside themes of the struggle between war and peace.
Takayuki Kawaguchi (川口 隆行, Kawaguchi Takayuki?), author of "Barefoot Gen and ‘A bomb literature’ re-recollecting the nuclear experience," (「はだしのゲン」と「原爆文学」 ――原爆体験の再記憶化をめぐって, "Hadashi no Gen" to "Genbaku Bungaku"-Genbaku Taiken no Sai Kioku ka Omegudde?) believes that the characters Katsuko and Natsue coopt but change the stereotypical "Hiroshima Maiden" story, as typified in Black Rain, as although courageous, Katsuko and Natsue are severely scarred both physically and mentally.
Hadashi no Gen the autobiography was originally serialized beginning in 1973 in the mass-market manga anthology Weekly Shōnen Jump (Shūkan Shōnen Jampu), which had earlier published Nakazawa's autobiographical Hiroshima story "Ore wa Mita" ("I Saw It"). It was cancelled after a year and a half, and moved to three other less widely distributed magazines: Shimin (Citizen), Bunka Hyōron (Cultural Criticism), and Kyōiku Hyōron (Educational Criticism). It was published in book collections in Japan beginning in 1975. A volunteer organization, Project Gen, formed in 1976 to produce English translations, which were released in four volumes. This made Barefoot Gen one of the first manga released in English, as well as other European languages.
The group Rondo Gen published an Esperanto translation as Nudpieda Gen (Barefoot Gen) in 1982. The chief translator was Izumi Yukio.
The German Rowohlt Verlag published only the first volume in 1982 under their mass-market label rororo. Carlsen Comics tried it again in 2004 but cancelled the publication after four volumes. Both publishers took the name "Barfuß durch Hiroshima" (Barefoot through Hiroshima).
The first volume was published in Norwegian in 1986 by GEVION norsk forlag AS. The Norwegian title is "Gen, Gutten fra Hiroshima" (Gen, the Boy from Hiroshima). A similar edition in Swedish ("Gen – Pojken från Hiroshima'" was published in 1985 by Alvglans förlag, which may have been the earliest published manga in Swedish.
The first volume was published in Finnish in 1985 by Jalava, becoming the first Japanese comic to be published in Finland, but publishing was likewise abandoned. The Finnish title is "Hiroshiman poika" (The Son of Hiroshima), and Finnish translation was done by Kaija-Leena Ogihara. In 2006 Jalava republished the first volume (with its original translation) and continued with publication of second volume.
A new English translation has been released with an introduction by Art Spiegelman, who has compared the work to his own work, Maus (which is about the experiences of Spiegelman's father during the Holocaust in Europe). Last Gasp released the final two volumes on February 10, 2010.
Barefoot Gen Series
Nakazawa plans to present a set of series #1 - #10 to US President Barack Obama with wishing to prompt against nuclear proliferation.
In 1976, 1977 and 1980, Tengo Yamada directed three live-action version films.
Two animated films were based on the manga, in 1983 and 1986, both directed by Mori Masaki for a production company that Nakazawa founded.
Barefoot Gen 2 is set three years after the bomb fell. It focuses on the continuing survival of Gen and orphans in Hiroshima.
Often action, dialogue and the images are almost expressionistic to add to the impact of the film. The falling of the bomb is shown first from the American point of view which is very orderly and impassive. Then, when the bomb explodes, the view is from the Japanese showing powerful images of people being vaporized, buildings exploding and multi-color explosions.
Initially released individually on dub-only VHS tape by Streamline Pictures, and then dub-only DVD by Image Entertainment, Genenon eventually sold bilingual versions of the film on DVD as a set.
A two episode TV drama was produced by Fuji Television in 2007 and was aired over two days.
10 books have been published about Barefoot Gen.
Some operas and musicals of Barefoot Gen have been on show.
The Gen anime made TIME magazine's list of top 5 anime DVDs.
Based on the acclaimed graphic novel by artist Keiji Nakazawa, Barefoot Gen is an animated drama about a family's struggle to survive in Japan during the waning days of World War II. The family's patriarch has run afoul of the local government due to his opposition to the war. The government begins to deprive the family of life's little luxuries, and its necessities. The hardships they suffer through are put into perspective by the atomic bombing of Hiroshima by Allied forces. The family's six-year-old son, Gen, who has lived with the reality of the war nearly his entire life, provides the center of this animated drama. ~ Perry Seibert, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 170&nbsp;mins
