The Viral Factor is a 2012 Hong Kong-Chinese action film directed by Dante Lam and starring Jay Chou and Nicholas Tse. The supporting cast includes Lin Peng, Bai Bing, Andy On, Carl Ng, Liu Kai-chi and Elaine Jin and the action director is Chin Kar-lok. Production started in March 2011，and it was released in January 17, 2012.
On a mission to protect a scientist who has stolen a copy of the smallpox virus in Jordan, Sean (Andy On) betrays his IDC (International Defense Commission) team in order to get the virus so he can mutate it into a biological weapon, develop a vaccine and sell it to a corrupt pharmaceutical company via an arms dealer. The failed mission leaves Jon Man (Jay Chou) injured and his girlfriend Ice (Bai Bing) dead. With two weeks to live, he decides to spend his remaining days with his mother (Elaine Jin) who tells him that he has a long lost brother, Man Yeung (Nicholas Tse) whom she left behind with his father, Man Tin (Liu Kai Chi). Jon decides to track Yeung down in Malaysia but upon arrival, he discovers that Yeung has become a wanted felon and is part of the plot orchestrated by Sean. Jon is drawn into the conflict, not only to protect his family but to ensure his brother does not go further down the road of unrighteousness and to take down Sean's operation for good.
With a HK$200 million budget, lead actors Jay Chou and Nicholas Tse had a combined insurance coverage of $150 million and 20 bodyguards to protect them. The budget also included RM70,000 for apartment rentals in Kuala Lumpur. The producers borrowed airplanes from the air force, tanks and other things to use during filming.Filming locations included Hong Kong, Xi'an, Middle East and Malaysia. Around 80% of the movie was filmed in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. In the movie, several scenes were shot in the compounds of International Medical University. One of the locations used in Malaysia was an abandoned construction site in Kuala Lumpur. Among them, the scene in a traffic jam was filmed at Jalan Raja Chulan, during long weekends and public holidays when fewer people would be in Kuala Lumpur.
Dying IDC agent Jon (Jay Chou) teams up with his long-lost criminal sibling Yang (Nicholas Tse) to rescue Yang's daughter Sheng and kindly medical specialist Rachel (Lin Peng) from kidnappers in Southeast Asia. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 122&nbsp;mins
