28 Hotel Rooms is an American feature film written and directed by Matt Ross and starring Chris Messina and Marin Ireland. It is Matt Ross' first feature film.
While traveling for work in a city far from their homes, a novelist and a corporate accountant conduct an affair over a period of several years. The film takes a minimal approach, and consists of scenes between the two of them in hotel rooms.
Matt Ross' original idea was to make an intimate film about a relationship that would primarily focus on characters rather than plot. He stated that "the genesis of this movie came out of conversations I had with Chris Messina".
After two weeks of rehearsal, the movie was shot in two parts. The first part took place in Los Angeles. Because Marin Ireland was shooting the HBO miniseries Mildred Pierce at the time, she had to fly back and forth between New York and Los Angeles for a month and a half. Then, the movie was edited for a couple months in order to determine the lacking scenes that would help further define the relationship between the two characters. The last remaining scenes were shot in New York in another 5 days. Filming took in total about 18 days.
Before and during the shooting of the film, Matt Ross encouraged the actors' collaboration which resulted in over 49 hours of material both scripted and improvised. During postproduction, many versions of the film were created and left on the cutting room floor, with scenes in different orders, different plots, beginnings or endings.
Variety found it lacking much dramatic or intellectual stimulation, despite the chemistry between the leads. Slant gave it 1.54 stars. Village Voice felt the characters weren't properly fleshed out, and the film's stripped-down, minimal approach didn't give any real insight into their lives. The New York Times was unimpressed, praising the acting but noting a lack of drama or passion between the characters. Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 38% while Metacritic gave the film a score of 50%.
A novelist and a married corporate accountant begin an intense love affair during a lonely business trip, and find their spontaneous affair developing into something truly meaningful as they seek a means of transcending their dreary daily existence. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All 28 Hotel Rooms Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 82&nbsp;mins
