For a Good Time, Call... is a 2012 American comedy film directed by Jamie Travis. It stars Ari Graynor, Lauren Miller, Justin Long, Mimi Rogers, Nia Vardalos, Mark Webber, and James Wolk. The film premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in January, 2012 where it sought a worldwide distribution deal with Focus Features. It was released theatrically in the United States on August 31, 2012.
After Lauren is told by her boyfriend that he wants to take a break while he's in Europe for the summer, she is unable to afford a place of her own. Her old friend Jesse informs her of this beautiful apartment right by Gramercy Park, but doesn't include the fact that his other friend Katie lives there. This is because Lauren and Katie can't stand each other. Back during their freshman year of college, Lauren had to drive an inebriated Katie home from a frat party. During the short first meeting, Katie accidentally spilled her own urine onto Lauren when she peed inside an empty slushie container, and was promptly thrown out of the car. Despite their clear disdain for each other, they reluctantly move in together since they both have no better options.
One night, Lauren hears strange noises coming from Katie's room. Believing she is being attacked, she opens the door to see Katie is saying sexually explicit things on the phone. Katie explains that her career as a writer doesn't earn her enough money to live in New York, so she does some work as a phone sex operator. Lauren is clearly disgusted by her roommate's profession, but makes some suggestions to how she could make more money. Several weeks go by, and Lauren loses her job at a publishing company when her boss decides to retire. She joins forces with Katie to create a highly lucrative phone sex business and eventually joins her as a second operator. In the process of their venture, both girls start to become firm friends. However, a betrayal will threaten this new-found harmony.
Lauren Miller and Katie Anne Naylon based the script on their real-life experiences as college roommates.
The role of Katie was written specifically for Ari Graynor. Lauren Miller used her performance in Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist as the inspiration for writing the character, and wrote Graynor a letter asking her to be involved in the production. The letter made Graynor cry. "I got this letter where they talked about what fans they were of my work and how they felt like I was one of the only people out there who could be both sexy and vulnerable and funny all at the same time," she stated.
Filming took place over 16 days in Los Angeles at a budget of $1.3 million. Miller and Naylon secured financing for the film independently. Focus Features picked up the film at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival for $2 million. James Schamus, chief executive at Focus, cited the film's 'emotionally generous' appeal and word-of-mouth potential as primary reasons for the acquisition.
For a Good Time, Call... has received generally mixed reviews. It currently stands at a 56% "rotten" rating on Rotten Tomatoes. "Brisk, funny, and sweetly raunchy, For a Good Time, Call... adds to the recent string of R-rated female comedies while serving as an overdue coming out party for the charming Ari Graynor," the consensus reads. Entertainment Weekly claimed, "It's Ari Graynor's movie - she's like Kate Hudson possessed by the spirit of Bette Midler. And all the better off for it."
For a Good Time, Call... was released on DVD and Blu-ray on February 19, 2013. The DVD features an audio commentary by director Jamie Travis, writer Katie Anne Naylon, and starsproducers Lauren Miller and Ari Graynor, five deleted scenes, and a "look inside" featurette.
The soundtrack for the film was released by Lakeshore Records on 28 August 2012.
Two former college rivals team up to start a lucrative business while sharing a New York apartment in this comedy from director Jamie Travis. Back in school, Lauren (Lauren Anne Miller) and Katie (Ari Graynor) had a lovehate relationship. Years later, Lauren is recovering from a messy break-up, and Katie is living in her late grandmother's apartment when the rent control runs out. In order to avoid losing the apartment, Katie invites Lauren to move in and help out with the payments. Fate intervenes, however, when Katie becomes fed up with Lauren's boisterous bedroom antics, and learns that her new roommate has a naughty side that could earn them both some quick cash. With Lauren in charge of the business and Katie catering to the clients, the mismatched pair launch a phone-sex line that quickly proves a smashing success. Justin Long, Mark Webber, and Nia Vardalos co-star. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All For a Good Time, Call... Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 85&nbsp;mins
