North Sea Texas (West Flemish: Noordzee, Texas) is a 2011 Flemish drama film and the first feature from cult director Bavo Defurne, starring Jelle Florizoone and Mathias Vergels. The screenplay was written by Bavo Defurne and Yves Verbraeken and is based in the 2004 children's novel Nooit gaat dit over by Andre Sollie. The film follows the story of Pim, a boy - living with his feckless mother - who falls in love with his male best friend, Gino.
From the official homepage
Pim lives in a run-down house in a dead-end street somewhere at the Belgian coast, together with his mother Yvette Bulteel (better known as Yvette Mimosa, local accordion starlet). Life here smells of cold French fries, cheap cigarettes, vermouth and stale beer. Mother Yvette uses her fat Etienne with his lousy grey Fiat as a driver for the nights she has to “perform”.
As a kid Pim dreams of a better life, imagining princesses and beauty queens. But when Pim turns 16 he dreams of Gino, the boy next door, instead. Ever since they were children there has been this tension between them. Now Gino is Pim’s motorcycling hero. Cold mockery, little humiliations and tiny bits of hope make up Pim’s life. No wonder he sometimes flees to his dream world.
Then one day Yvette leaves with young, hunky Zoltan, the boy from the fair. When Yvette leaves her son alone in the empty house, Pim seizes the opportunity and his dreams become half-truths. Pim moves to the neighbours’ house to live with Marcella, his “second mum”. And with Sabrina, Gino’s sister, who circles longingly around Pim. He even sleeps in Gino’s bed! But Gino’s off romancing and living with a girl from across the border. Dreams never come true. Or do they? On a rainy day Gino returns.
The film received positive reviews from film critics. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 82% out of 22 professional critics gave the film a positive review. Henry Barnes from The Guardian said that "North Sea Texas looks beautiful, is acted brilliantly, but it's hard to get a hold on when Pim's drifting by in a dream world." Allan Hunter from the Daily Express called it "A delicate little heartwarmer of a film."
At the 2011 edition of the Montreal International Film Festival, the film received two prizes: the "Silver Zenith for the First Fiction Feature Film" and the "Fipresci Prize for a film in the First Films Competition". In late October, the film premiered at the Rome International Film Festival. It was warmly welcomed there, receiving the Marc'Aurelio Alice nella Città 13 + Award of the Festival.
In January, the film was selected for the Palm Springs International Film Festival, along with four other Flemish film. It was released in the United States by Strand Releasing, after it bought the film rights to Wavelength Pictures.
The film was also screened at the London Gay and Lesbian Film Festival, and was released in 6 April 2012 in Great Britain.
A young boy abandoned by his mother is taken in by his kindly neighbor, and finds himself living under the same roof as the handsome boy he's pined for from afar in this tender coming of age drama. Pim and his mother Yvette live a bleak existence on the Belgian coast. Terminally bored, Pim frequently drifts away on vivid flights of fancy, imagining himself living amongst glamorous beauty queens while longing for the affections of Gino, his neighbor Marcella's rugged, motorcycle-riding son. Sadly for Pim, Gino is far less than responsive to his affections. Later, when Pim's mother runs away with a younger man she met from the fair, Marcella adopts the young boy as a surrogate son. Meanwhile, as Gino leaves to be with his girlfriend across the border, his sister Sabrina begins to harbor a crush on Pim. Just when it appears that Pim's first and only love has left for good, however, Gino returns, and the wide-eyed dreamer finds that his fantasies may in fact have a chance at becoming reality. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 95&nbsp;mins
