Deadfall, previously titled Kin and Blackbird, is a 2012 crime drama film directed by Stefan Ruzowitzky, from a screenplay by Zach Dean. It stars Eric Bana, Olivia Wilde, and Charlie Hunnam.
Siblings Addison (Eric Bana) and Liza (Olivia Wilde) are on the run from a casino heist gone wrong. When a car accident leaves their wheel man and a state trooper dead, they split up and make a run for the Canadian border in the worst of circumstances – a near whiteout blizzard.
Ex-con Jay (Charlie Hunnam) is released from prison and calls his parents June (Sissy Spacek) and retired sheriff Chet (Kris Kristofferson) to say he'll be for Thanksgiving. Jay confronts his coach, who had betrayed him and demands his money owed to him. The two fight and Jay, a former boxer, inadvertently injures the man in serious fashion. Thinking he's killed him and will go back to jail, Jay flees the scene.
Hannah (Kate Mara), the sheriff's deputy, visits Jay's parents and is invited to join their Thanksgiving dinner that night. She returns to the police station and is treated poorly by her father, the sheriff Becker (Treat Williams), who does not include her in the hunt for the unknown criminals. It is shown she is accepted to be trained to become an F.B.I. agent, and the station secretary encourages to live her life and not worry about her father. Hannah is clearly torn as she believes her father's attitude stems from the loss of his wife years ago.
While driving, Jay finds a shivering Liza in the road and offers her a ride to the nearest gas station. Meanwhile, wandering in the snow, Addison encounters an elderly man tending to his damaged snowmobile. He attacks the man, who feigns unconsciousness, then slices off Addison's little finger. The two fight until Addison overpowers the man, who is stabbed to death by his knife held in his hand. Addison drives off on the snowmobile, which he later abandons when it stops running, but not before cauterizing his wound on the engine.
Jay and Liza stop at a bar during the blizzard. She sneaks back to his truck to find Jay's address and calls Addison to meet up there. She returns inside and goofs around with Jay by pretending to be a couple to the server. A romantic relationship develops between Jay and Liza when they share their stories of how they see each other. Liza names Jay "Addison", as earlier he named her "Patricia". They later have sex in a motel.
Meanwhile, Addison invades a cabin near the woods and kills the abusive father of the family. After dumping the man's body, he tends to the distraught wife and her children. He "thinks" while drinking and talking to the oldest child, Lisa, whom he mistakenly called Liza earlier in the evening.
Hannah, gathering information about the crime, performs a duty from a woman who gets concerned for her relative (the mother living in the cabin), who never showed up to her.
Realizing that she has feelings for Jay, Liza calls Addison to say that Jay left her, that she couldn't proceed on with the plan and that she'll find another ride. When Jay notices Liza has left, he chases her and confesses his feelings for her. However, Liza says it was only a fling in an effort to protect Jay. Liza tells Jay that her brother Addison was her protector from their abusive father, who was killed when they were young. She confides in him how she wants to have a family of her own instead of being messed up.
Hannah and two officers start to investigate the cabin. As one of the officers is knocking on the door, Hannah notices a man's corpse, and realizes the killer the police are searching for is likely still in the cabin. Hannah tries to warn the officer at the door but Addison hears her screamed warning and shoots him with a shotgun through the door. Addison flees on a snowmobile with Hannah and the other officer giving chase, but when the officer is killed in the chase, Hannah calls for back-up.
Addison arrives at Jay's house and holds his parents captive. When Liza and Jay arrive for Thanksgiving dinner, June steps out and tells him about the situation, startling Liza. They all eat dinner together. Addison realizes Liza is involved with Jay when she acts protectively of him and his family. Hannah receives a call from a Detroit detective about Jay's coach who received only a concussion after the fight. She arrives at the house and is also taken captive by Addison.
Becker finds Addison's snowmobile at the house and tries to investigate. Inside, Becker shoots Addison, who turns out to be his daughter, Hannah, dressed as Addison. Hannah seems unharmed, but Becker is then shot by Addison. A struggle between Jay and Addison ensues outside with Jay overpowering Addison, who gets up and questions Jay about his love for Liza. Before Addison can harm Jay, Liza fatally shoots Addison.
In the wake of a botched heist in Mount Pleasant, MI, sibling casino robbers Addison (Eric Bana) and Liza (Olivia Wilde) are making a mad dash for the Canadian border when their car careens off the icy road, and their getaway driver is instantly killed. After a policeman stumbles across the accident scene moments later, Addison impulsively pumps him full of bullets, gives half of the cash to Liza, and insists that the pair split up. Later, as the desperate Addison holes up in a secluded hunting cabin, Liza stands shivering by the side of the road, where she's eventually picked up by ex-con and former Olympic pugilist Jay (Charlie Hunnam), who's on the run from the police himself following a scrape with a Detroit gym owner. Upon learning that Jay is heading to his parents' house for Thanksgiving, Liza tells her brother where they will be, and Addison manages to reach the home first, quickly taking Jay's mother June (Sissy Spacek) and father Chet (Kris Kristofferson) -- a retired sheriff -- hostage. The situation turns critical when Jay and Liza arrive at the house to find Addison holding June and Chet at gunpoint, and as the group gathers around the table the local police begin to close in. Meanwhile, with his options quickly running out and his sister falling for a hostage, the trigger-happy Addison seems capable of snapping at any moment. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Deadfall Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 95&nbsp;mins
