Elles is a 2011 European film, directed and co-written by Polish director Małgorzata Szumowska. It shows an episode in the life of Anne (Juliette Binoche), a journalist in Paris for French Elle who is researching an article about female student prostitution.
Although the young women are not keen on publicity, she persuades two students into talking to her: the provocative Alicja (Joanna Kulig), an ambitious economics student who left Poland to further her education; and the subtle Charlotte (Anaïs Demoustier), enrolled in a Parisian classe préparatoire, determined to leave her modest provincial background behind.
Where Anne is expecting misery and distress, she discovers freedom, pride, and empowerment. As Anne’s professional curiosity in the two women becomes a matter of personal interest, she starts to rediscover her own sexuality.
Elles premiered at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival and first entered general release in France in February 2012.
The film is set during the course of a day where we find journalist Anne trying to meet her deadline while shopping and preparing the food for an evening meal, entertaining her husband's boss and his wife. She is also worrying about her two sons, the eldest of whom has been skipping classes while the younger appears to be becoming hooked on video games. In between there are flashbacks to the conversations she has had with the two students, scenes from their lives and the effect that their work in the sex industry is having on them and those close to them.
Anne interviews Charlotte in a park where she seems very relaxed about the sex she has with her clients. She has tried doing part-time work but found that her studies suffered so she turned to prostitution. But she still does the occasional shift as she needs to be able to explain to her family and boyfriend where the money comes from. These sexual encounters inevitably lead to conflict in her relationship with her boyfriend who at one point demands to know if she is seeing someone else. Her friendly girl-next-door nature leads her clients to confide in her about their lives - their jobs, their wives - which has surprised Charlotte as she had imagined the work would have been non-stop sex.
Alicja is quite a different person. Arriving from Poland to study in France she not only lost her suitcase but found the student advisers to be less than helpful in her hour of need. Another student came to her rescue but in return for giving her a roof over her head, she had to sleep with him. By the time we see her being interviewed by Anne, Alicja has earned enough to have a very nice apartment along with designer clothes and handbags. She is much more hedonistic than Charlotte and proceeds to get Anne drunk during the course of the interview in her apartment. When asked who her clients are, Alicja simply replies that they are bored husbands. For Alicja, being alone in a foreign country has led her to seemingly much more freedom than she enjoyed at home but when asked if she wanted to stop, she admits that there is an element of addiction with the way she earns money. It is only when her mother comes to stay that we see the harm that her sex work is really having on her life.
There are points in the film where it all looks rather innocent and carefree but we are reminded of the potentially dangerous circumstances that young women can find themselves in with Charlotte falling prey to a violent client. And we are shown that the clients are not creepy weirdos but in fact just ordinary men who you would walk past in the street without giving them a second look - they are both young and old, predatory and insecure.
How the students' lives turn out is left to the viewer to decide with the end of the film focusing more on Anne's life and the effect these encounters with the two students has had on her, and her relationship with her husband.
The film is rated NC-17 as a result of explicit sexual content.
A writer is given a new perspective on her life by two women she initially imagines could not be more different than her in this drama from filmmaker Malgoska Szumowska. Anne (Juliette Binoche) is a wife and mother who maintains a busy schedule looking after her youngest son, who is obsessed with video games, her teenage son (Francois Civil), who spends much of his time stoned on marijuana, and her aging father (Jean-Marie Binoche) whose health is failing. Anne's husband (Louis-Do de Lencquesaing) is too preoccupied with his own career to worry about the household chores, and she has to juggle it all while keeping up with her work as a journalist. Anne is researching a magazine piece about prostitutes, and she's been conducting extensive interviews with Alicja (Joanna Kulig) and Charlotte (Anais Demoustier), both of whom are attractive, well-adjusted women in their early twenties who have turned to sex work to support themselves. As Anne develops a greater understanding of Alicja and Charlotte's lives and work, she sees a contrast in the way the younger women have chosen a trade that, despite its reputation, affords them freedom while Anne's personal and professional life have become something of a trap. Elles was an official selection at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 99&nbsp;mins
