The Day is a 2011 Canadian post-apocalyptic film directed by Douglas Aarniokoski. The film stars Ashley Bell, Shannyn Sossamon, Dominic Monaghan, Shawn Ashmore and Cory Hardrict. The film premiered on September 16, 2011 at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. The film was released in 12 theaters in the United States on August 29, 2012. It screened theatrically for 16 days and grossed $20,984.
The Day follows a group of five people navigating a post-apocalyptic planet in hopes of discovering resources, shelter, and other survivors. Fatigued and lost, they explore a nearby farmhouse for shelter. While scavenging, they inadvertently activate a trap that sets off an alarm and throws the group into a desperate fight for their lives. As their supplies quickly dwindle, so do their chances of survival in a chaotic world.
After leaving his wife and daughter alone in the car outside, Adam (Shawn Ashmore) searches for supplies inside an empty house located in a ravaged suburban community. His wife and daughter are attacked and captured by an unseen force. Adam unites with three people that he considers family: Rick (Dominic Monaghan), Shannon (Shannyn Sossamon), and Henson (Cory Hardrict). Adam also meets someone new: a young woman named Mary (Ashley Bell) who is of unknown origin. Seeking refuge in the countryside because of Henson's deteriorating health, they discover a seemingly abandoned farmhouse at the end of a deserted road. Their leader, Rick, asks the two women to try to trap some game outside. Meanwhile Adam and Rick care for Henson and search the house for supplies. While washing her clothing in a river, Mary is surprised by a man who chases and nearly catches her. She fights back and kills him with a shotgun. Back in the house, the men discover food supplies in the basement only to realize the supplies are part of a trap. The trap kills Rick and sets off an alarm. Hearing the alarm, the two women rush back to the house where they find and confront the attackers, one of whom recognizes Mary from another clan because they both have distinct tattoos they both recognize.
The women rescue the men from the intruders. Afterward, Shannon, who overhears Mary’s conversation with one of the intruders, knocks Mary unconscious. The three restrain Mary in a chair and question her aggressively about her past in order to learn who and what she really is. When she doesn’t speak, Adam, furious over Rick’s death, begins to torture her. This does not sit well with Henson. Mary eventually gives in and tells Adam she was not responsible for killing Adam's wife and daughter. She tells the story of why she left her own clan, revealing the clan that set the trap is coming for them. After listening to the story, the three debate whether to bring her along, whilst burning Rick's body.
Meanwhile, the hostile clan and its leader (Michael Eklund) swear to take back their house and supplies. The four barricade the entire house as they prepare themselves for the oncoming battle. At night, the opposing clan invades the house where the four are. The group starts to shoot at the hostile clan through the windows, and in the fighting, Henson is captured and killed.
The hostile clan leader's anger heats up even more when Shannon unintentionally kills his young son. He leaves his daughter to avenge her brother’s death. In the morning, Mary insists Shannon and Adam leave through the back and leave her to confront the remaining enemy clan members in front of the house, which they agree upon. Then only after leaving do they realize that Shannon had taken the shells from her shotgun.
Mary is overpowered by the leader, only to be saved when Adam comes back to help her fight off the hostile predators. During the fight, he sustains a series of wounds which lead to his death. Out in the woods, Shannon is attacked, and her throat is slashed by the leader’s daughter, who leaves her to die. At the farmhouse, Mary cremates Adam's remains, only to encounter the leader’s daughter disguised as an innocent girl. Before the little girl can carry out her plan, Mary decapitates her and walks away from the burning farmhouse.
The Day is directed by Douglas Aarniokoski based on a screenplay by Luke Passmore. Filming took place in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, during the fall of 2010.
The Day premiered at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival on September 12, 2011. After the screening, Splendid acquired rights to distribute the film in German-speaking territories in Europe and Benelux. WWE Studios also acquired rights to distribute the film in the United States. It later partnered with Anchor Bay Films to co-distribute the film. In November 2011, Entertainment One acquired rights to distribute the film in the United Kingdom, France, Scandinavia, and South Africa.
The film was released in 12 theaters in the United States on August 29, 2012. It was in release for 16 days and grossed $20,984.
Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports among 13 reviews an average rating of 5 out of 10. Metacritic reports among 9 reviews an overall score of 41 out of 100; it identified one positive review, six mixed reviews, and two negative reviews.
A small band of friends make an uneasy alliance with a mysterious lone wolf in this blend of horror and adventure. An unnamed catastrophe has turned the Earth into a wasteland, and as packs of feral cannibals wander the countryside, a dwindling number of survivors struggle to stay alive. Rick (Dominic Monaghan), Adam (Shawn Ashmore), Henson (Cory Hardrict), and Shannon (Shannyn Sossamon) have been journeying together for months and are the last living members of a much larger group. Mary (Ashley Bell) is a solitary woman who crossed paths with the survivors and is now traveling with them. She isn't interested in discussing her past or becoming friends, but the others learn she's a powerful ally in a fight. The travelers take shelter in a house, but are soon surrounded by cannibals; they quickly realize just how strong a warrior Mary can be, while also discovering the terrible truth that led her to wander alone. The Day was directed by Douglas Aarniokoski, who has accumulated extensive credits as an assistant director and helming second-unit material on major films. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All The Day Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 84&nbsp;mins
