Walking the Halls is a 2012 television film directed by Doug Campbell. Originally airing on Lifetime, the film was written by Christine Conradt and Ken Sanders, and features Jamie Luner and Caitlin Thompson.
Set in the area of Los Angeles, the film focusses on 18-year-old high school senior student Casey Benson (Caitlin Thompson). When she publicly lashes out at her boyfriend Jeremy (Isiah Adams) for dumping her carelessly in public, she attracts the attention of the school's most popular girls, led by confident and attractive young Amber (Marie Avgeropoulos). Amber and her friends Taylor (Lindsay Taylor) and Kylie (Arden Cho) get her a fake ID, and take her to a nightclub. Little does Casey know that Amber and her friends work as high-profile call girls for the high school's police officer Jack (Matthew Alan). Without informing her that she is supposed to sleep with men in exchange for money, Amber sets Casey up with 28-year-old Max (Jason-Shane Scott). After getting drunk for the first time in her life, Casey spends the night with Max and gets into a fight with her mother Holly (Jamie Luner) after getting home after her curfew, intoxicated. Holly has been in an unhappy marriage with her adulterous husband Christopher (Al Sapienza), who cares little for his family's well-being. Even though her husband does not support her, Holly decides to open her own restaurant with friend Maggie (Darlene Vogel).
The next day, when she receives $600 for having slept with Max, Casey is appalled that she was unknowingly working as a prostitute and immediately turns to Max to confront him with his agreements. Max tries to calm her down, and assures Casey that he is just as interested in her, as she is in him. Later that day, Holly finds out that Christopher has lost all of the family savings on a bad investment, as well as that he is having an affair. She decides to file for divorce and confronts him with the actions, which leads to domestic violence. Holly ends up calling the cops on her own husband, and Christopher is placed under arrest. Casey is shocked by her family situation and blames her mother for not having tried hard enough to make her marriage work. She then reconciles with Amber and heads out to a nightclub to get drunk. There, she is offered $1200 dollars if she sleeps with a wealthy man in his forties. Even though she does not feel attracted to him, she takes Amber up on the deal.
The next day, Holly finds out that Casey has a lot of money, and snoops in her room for clues. When Casey finds out, she decides to move out, and temporarily seeks refuge at Amber's. There, she is convinced to have a threesome with a high roller for $5,000. When they arrive at the high roller's house, he reveals himself to be a very old man. Casey wanted to leave but Amber reminds her of the money and offers her a drug. Casey refuses and complains how ugly and disgusting their client is, her complaints were overheard by the client. After a cocktail, the old man request both girls to sit next to him on the couch which they comply awkwardly. He first whispers to Amber to do a sexual act which she reluctantly complies. However, when he request Casey to do a sexual act, she refuses and runs out of the house. Jack beats her up and forces her to get back in. Casey is eventually able to flee the scene, but is fired on the spot. She returns to her mother in tears, and admits to having worked as a prostitute. Holly heads out to the school to ask for a transfer, and when she explains the situation, Jack receives notice that his prostitution ring might soon be out on the open. To prevent this from happening, he and Amber (whom he forces to be his accomplice) take the Bensons hostage. Jack forces Christopher to kill his family and then end his own life, but - with Amber's help - Holly and Casey are able to escape, and Holly eventually shoots Jack to his death.
In a voice-over, Casey explains that she finished school and then went to college. Amber left town and was never heard from again. Holly and Christopher made peace with each other, easing their divorce.
This teen-oriented thriller concerns Casey (Jamie Luner), a beautiful high school senior who joins a group of "barely legal" call girls to earn a little extra money. Though she's soon bewitched by this new lifestyle and the thrills it provides, the prostitution comes with messy, ugly strings attached - in the form of violent reprisals that materialize against Casey and her family when the young woman tries to withdraw. ~ Nathan Southern, RoviSee All Walking the Halls Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 90&nbsp;mins
