Pinchas Perry
The Chicago 8 is a 2010 independent drama film starring Philip Baker Hall, Gary Cole, Steven Culp and Mayim Bialik. The film is based on actual court transcripts from the Chicago Seven trial. The Chicago 8 is written and directed by Pinchas Perry. Pinchas Perry, Al Bravo, Shirly Brener, Kate Connor, Alain Jakubowicz and James Mathers all serve as producers. The film is edited by Colleen Halsey and Richard Halsey with James Mathers serving as cinematographer. The film is set to have a theatrical release on October 23, 2012, in the United States.
The Chicago 8 commenced filming in September 2009 in Los Angeles. The film premiered at Peachtree International Film Festival in Atlanta in August 2010 and has since screened at the Museum of Tolerance Film Festival, at the 11th annual Beverly Hills Film Festival and at the Santa Cruz Film Festival. The film has received the top prize of Best Feature Film 2010 at the Peachtree International Film Festival and Best Feature Film 2011 at the Beverly Hills Film Festival prior to its theatrical release.
In 1968, America was divided over the Vietnam War. Due to the growing anti-war movement, President Lyndon B. Johnson announced that he would not run for re-election. Democrat Robert Kennedy, the Presidential hopeful, was assassinated that summer. The Democratic National Convention was held in Chicago where leaders of the anti-war movement planned a protest. During the protest, Chicago Mayor Daley used police force to brutally quell the rally, and as a result, rioting broke out in the streets. One person was killed, hundreds were injured and thousands were arrested. One year later, newly-elected President Richard Nixon gave the green light to prosecute eight men who were accused of conspiracy to incite a riot. The FBI brought them to Chicago, where they stood trial. They were known thereafter as The Chicago 8.
Incidentally, three of these actors (Hall, Cole, and Culp) played recurring characters on the television show The West Wing.
Filming of The Chicago 8 commenced in September 2009 in Los Angeles and concluded in Late 2009. The film was written and directed by Pinchas Perry. Jim Mathers, Pinchas Perry, Al Bravo, Shirly Brener- Co-Producer, Kate Connor and Alain Jakubowicz all serve as producers of the film. The Chicago 8 was edited by Colleen Halsey and Richard Halsey. James Mathers also serves as cinematographer. Peter Bateman and Shay Raviv produced the music for the film. The film was produced independently.
The film first premiered at Peachtree International Film Festival in Atlanta in August 2010 and has since screened at the Museum of Tolerance Film Festival in November 2010, at the 11th annual Beverly Hills Film Festival in April 2011 and at the Santa Cruz Film Festival in May 2011. The film is set to have a theatrical release on October 23, 2012 in the United States.
Prior to the films release The Chicago 8 has been nominated for a number of awards from its Film Festival releases. The film has received two significant awards. The Chicago 8 was awarded the top prize of Best Feature Film 2010 at the Peachtree International Film Festival in 2010. In 2011 the film attained the leading award of Best Feature Film 2011 at the Beverly Hills Film Festival prior to its theatrical release.
The Chicago 8 is the true story from the notorious 1968 trial that resulted when seven leaders of a Vietnam anti-war movement, and a member of the Black Panthers, were charged with conspiracy to incite devastating riots in Chicago.See All The Chicago 8 Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 89&nbsp;mins
