Last Ounce of Courage is a 2012 American family drama film directed by Darrel Campbell, Kevin McAfee and starring Marshall R. Teague, Jennifer O'Neill, and Fred Williamson. It centers on the struggle of Bob Revere, a man dealing with what he feels is his freedom of religion under attack by the government of his community and an ACLU-like group.
After the death of his son Thomas, Mayor Bob Revere (Teague) has to deal with politicians removing Christmas and starts a controversial protest.
Last Ounce of Courage was released on September 14, 2012 at 1,407 locations in the United States and grossed $1.59 million in its opening weekend, ranking 15th at the box office. Box Office Mojo reported that unlike most Christian films that depend on word of mouth, commercials were run for Last Ounce of Courage. The website said this indicated that the opening was "probably a pretty serious financial disappointment". As of September 23, the film has grossed an estimated $3,329,674.
Last Ounce of Courage received negative reviews from film critics. Rotten Tomatoes reported that 0% of critics gave the film positive reviews based on 15 reviews as of March 2013, with an average score of 2.5 out of 10. At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the film has received an average score of 11 based on 5 reviews. As the Washington Post puts it, "Its effectiveness depends entirely on the degree to which you already believe its talking points..” Actor and activist Chuck Norris said of the film, "It was an easy choice to endorse this film because its message is consistent with my life principles and core values.”
Michael O'Sullivan of The Washington Post said it was "preaching to the choir". Robert Abele of the Los Angeles Times said of the fim, "The patriot-packaged "Last Ounce of Courage" has been made with the conviction of true zealots, but also the competence of amateurs." Reviewer Steven Hunter gave the film a 50% rating saying "It isn't terrible but it isn't amazing either. Somehow it falls mysteriously in between.". In contrast, Movieguide, a conservative Christian film review site, says of the film, "Last Ounce of Courage ends on several positive notes that make it recommended viewing for everyone."
A patriotic veteran rallies the citizens of his small town to fight back against tyranny as their rights are slowly stripped away in this politically-charged family drama. Bob Revere (Marshall Teague) knows what it's like to fight for freedom. A small-town war hero, he's heartbroken when his own son Tom loses his life defending America abroad. But Tom left behind a son of his own named Christian, and 14 years later, the young boy and his mother move back to Mount Colombus to be with their family for the holidays. Meanwhile, Christian's grandfather Bob, now the mayor of Mount Columbus, begins to notice that his country is heading in a dangerous direction, and that freedom itself is on the line. As Bob rallies the locals to awaken from their comfortable stupor and fight back against the powers that be, Christian learns that sometimes the battle for liberty begins at home. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Last Ounce of Courage Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 99&nbsp;mins
