The Long Walk Home is a 1990 film starring Sissy Spacek and Whoopi Goldberg, and directed by Richard Pearce.
Set in Alabama, it is based on a screenplay about the Montgomery Bus Boycott (1955-1956) by John Cork and a short film by the same name, produced by students at the University of Southern California in 1988.
The feature film is based on a short screenplay and film of the same name, written by John Cork, then a graduate student in directing at USC. He had submitted his script to the Cinema Department for consideration, hoping also to direct it. While USC selected Cork's script for production, the department assigned Beverlyn E. Fray, another student, to direct it.
The short film won several awards, including first place at the Black American Cinema Society. But Cork was unhappy with the finished project and unsuccessfully tried to block screenings of the short film.
The film was expanded as a feature.
Set in Montgomery, Alabama, United States, during the 1955 Montgomery Bus Boycott, it features Whoopi Goldberg as Odessa Cotter, an African-American woman who works as a maidnanny for Miriam Thompson, a well-to-do white woman played by Sissy Spacek. Odessa and her family confront typical issues faced by African Americans in the South at the time: poverty, racism, segregation, and violence. The black community has begun a widespread boycott of the city-owned buses to end segregation; Odessa takes on a long walk both ways to work.
Miriam Thompson offers to give her a ride two days a week to ensure she gets to work on time and to lessen the fatigue her “long walk home” is causing. Around the city, some informal carpools and other systems are starting, but most of the blacks walk to work.
As the boycott continues, tensions rise in the city. Blacks had been the majority riders on the city-owned buses, and the system is suffering financially. Miriam's decision to support Odessa by giving her a ride becomes an issue with her husband and other prominent members of the white community, who want the boycott to end. Miriam has to choose between what she believes is right or succumb to pressure from her husband and friends.
After a fight with her husband, Miriam decides to follow her heart. She becomes involved in a carpool group to help other black workers like Odessa. In the film's final scene, Miriam and her daughter Mary Catherine join Odessa and the other protesters in standing against oppression.
One of the three GM "old-look" transit buses used in this film was the Montgomery Bus Lines bus #2857, which Rosa Parks had been riding when she refused to give up her seat and was arrested. (Her arrest was the catalyst for the black community's calling the boycott.) By the time of the film, the bus was in poor condition. The filmmakers had it given a partial repaint and towed it by a cable for its scenes in the movie. It is held by the Smithsonian Institution, where it is part of exhibits on civil rights in the National Museum of American History.
The film was released theatrically on December 21, 1990. After the film's theatrical run, it was released to videocassette by Live Home Video in the United States and in Canada that same year by Cineplex Odeon.
In 2002, the film was released twice on DVD by Platinum Disc and Artisan Entertainment, both presented in full-screen without bonus features. Both DVDs are now discontinued. On January 29, 2013, a new DVD was released by Lionsgate, under license from Miramax. It is still in full-screen and does not contain any bonus features. A widescreen DVD is available in Spain.
The Long Walk Home is a recreation of a troubled era in American history. The time is 1955; the place, Montgomery, Alabama. When Rosa Parks, an African American woman, is arrested for refusing to give up her bus seat to a white man, it is the first volley in the great Bus Boycott, organized by Dr. Martin Luther King in order to desegregate the Birmingham transportation system. The boycott is a decided inconvenience for Miriam Thompson (Sissy Spacek), a well-to-do white woman. Now, Miriam must drive to the black section of town to pick up her maid Odessa Cotter (Whoopi Goldberg) and bring her to work. Outside of her own social circle, Miriam realizes for the first time just how privileged, sheltered and self-centered her life has been. What brings this fact home is the realization that Odessa has literally been raising two families: the Thompsons' and her own. Odessa has also sacrificed her own health and wellbeing to serve her employers without question or complaint. Awakened to the true inequities of "Separate But Equal", and impressed by Dr. King's edict of nonviolent resistance, Miriam joins the boycott. This stirs up the racist feelings harbored by Miriam's husband Norman (Dwight Schultz), who at the behest of his goonish brother Tunker (Dylan Baker) joins the Klanlike White Citizen's Council. ~ Hal Erickson, RoviSee All The Long Walk Home Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 98&nbsp;mins
