The Heart of Christmas is a 2011 American Christian drama film directed by Gary Wheeler and starring Candace Cameron Bure, Jeanne Neilson, Eric Jay Beck, George Newbern and Matthew West in his film debut. It is based on a true story of the Locke family. A story about how one woman’s encounter with a family caring for a child with acute leukemia transforms her faith and her attitude about her own family. Despite some plot problems she never leaves and still have faith in God.
The film received positive reviews by critics.
Megan, who has been struggling with finding time for her husband Walt (Burgess Jenkins) and hasn't made it to one of her daughter Emma's (Brooke Bryan) soccer games all year, has forgotten that it is Halloween until her son Jackson (Christian Nelson, Hayden Nelson) is standing in front of her in costume, ready to go trick-or-treating. After bargaining with Emma to take her brother door to door in a nearby neighborhood for a few hours so she can finish a business proposal, they race out of the house, only to find hundreds of homes lit up for Christmas on Halloween. Confused by this scene, Megan asks neighbors Mark (Matthew West) and Trish (Erin Bethea), who have rallied the community to bring Christmas holiday cheer to the Locke family upon Dax's (Chris Shone, Nick Shone) final return home from St. Jude, to explain the scene before them. Trish hands Megan a card with Julie Locke's (Jeanne Neilson) blog information on it and encourages Megan to read it. Before Megan is able to react, Trish sends her away with a heartfelt warning, stating, "it will change your life."
Through Megan's narrative, we are introduced to Dax's father Austin (Eric Beck), who is deeply concerned about Dax's prognosis; the type of cancer has poor survival rates in children Dax's age. Austin is committed to being open to new forms of treatment and to staying hopeful for Dax, for his wife Julie, her sister Melissa (Kelsey Marie Kingsbury) and Dax's grandmother Theresa (Anita Renfroe). During their hospital stay at St. Jude, Julie Locke meets Michelle (Dendrie Taylor), whose daughter Elizabeth (Kaya Millar) is also being treated there. Michelle introduces Julie to a support system of other moms, who encourage Julie to blog about Dax's progress and her journey as a way to keep friends and family informed. Days after initial treatment begins, we meet the team of incredible doctors at St. Jude Medical Center: Nurse Lisa (Sophia Sinise), Dr. Sandler (George Newbern) and Dr. Benson (Karl T. Wright), who is charged with telling Julie and Austin that, after months of treatment and a rollercoaster of emotional highs and lows, the experimental, last chance effort was unsuccessful in curing Dax's cancer. Determined to give Dax one last Christmas, Austin Locke surprises Julie and Dax with a Christmas tree- even though it's October. The neighbors quickly catch on and surprise the Locke's by showing up at their home to give Dax, his family and the community a magical night to remember.
Megan  is a successful businesswoman, wife and mother of two, who is lost in her drive for success. While taking her children trick-or-treating, she encounters a bunch of families decorating for Christmas. They are trying to provide one last Christmas for Dax Locke, a toddler in their neighborhood who is dying of a rare form of leukemia. Curious, Megan reads Julie Locke's  blog and learns about the Locke's journey. Julie's journey of grief inspires Megan to examine her own life and priorities.
The film received positive reviews by critics. Rotten Tomatoes gave the film 3.2 out of 5. The Dove critics gave the film 5 stars out of 5 while the film receive 5.810 rate from IMDB based on 145 users.
The film was released in the US on November 7, 2011. It received a worldwide TV premiere on December 07, 2012 on GMC channel.
An entire community rallies to give a dying child the Christmas of a lifetime in this touching drama based on a true story. Upon learning their young son Dax is suffering from terminal cancer and won't live to see Christmas, grief-stricken parents Austin and Julie Locke decide to move their Yuletide celebrations to October so they can all enjoy one last holiday together. As the Christmas decorations go up and word of Dax's condition spreads throughout the community, the Locke's friends and neighbors give the family a gift they will never forget. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Heart of Christmas Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 89&nbsp;mins
