Peace, Love & Misunderstanding is a 2012 American independent comedy-drama film directed by Bruce Beresford and starring Jane Fonda, Catherine Keener, Jeffrey Dean Morgan, Elizabeth Olsen, Nat Wolff, Marissa O'Donnell, Chace Crawford, Kyle MacLachlan, and Rosanna Arquette. It was filmed in the town of Woodstock, New York - the same town in which the movie is set. The film had a gala premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 13, 2011. It was released to theaters on June 8, 2012, starting in limited release. It was released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc on October 2, 2012.
When her husband tells her he wants a divorce, devastated Manhattan lawyer Diane (Catherine Keener) heads upstate with her two teens to Woodstock to stay with her estranged hippie mother (Jane Fonda). In this charming village, Diane and her city kids get a new perspective on life: poetry-reading daughter Zoe (Elizabeth Olsen) becomes interested in a sensitive young butcher Cole (Chace Crawford), nerdy son Jake (Nat Wolff) finds material for his first film project, and Diane herself grows close to a handsome carpentersinger Jude (Jeffrey Dean Morgan). Most importantly, Diane finally gets the chance to end the ancient war with the mother she has not seen for decades.
Peace, Love and Misunderstanding has received negative reviews from critics, where it currently holds a 29% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 65 reviews with the consensus stating: "Peace, Love, & Misunderstanding produces many unintentional laughs with its absurdly contrived plot and cheery insistence that everything is just super".
A soundtrack for the movie has not been released for purchase, but IMDB.com and tvmoviesongs.com listed songs that were played or performed in the movie:
"Being On Our Own"
Performed by Fruit Bats

Performed by Jane Fonda

Performed by The Grateful Dead

Performed by The Grateful Dead

Performed by Harper Simon

Performed by Levon Helm

Performed by 'Gary Knox and the Streethearts'

Performed by Harper Simon

Performed by Vetiver

Performed by The Grateful Dead

Performed by Jeffrey Dean Morgan and Catherine Keener

Performed by Katharine McPhee

Performed by Sympatico Rhythm Unit

Performed by Great Lake Swimmers

Performed by Amos Lee

Performed by Angus and Julia Stone

Performed by Dorie Colangelo

Performed by Mieka Pauley

Performed by The Gaylads

Performed by Jeffrey Dean Morgan

Performed by Blair McMullen

Performed by Blair McMillen


Director Bruce Beresford brings Jane Fonda back to the screen in this comedy-drama about a mother and daughter who have precious little in common. Diane (Catherine Keener) is a straight-laced Republican lawyer who lives in Manhattan with her teenage children Zoe (Elizabeth Olsen) and Jake (Nat Wolff). However, Diane's marriage to Mark (Kyle MacLachlan) has fallen apart, and after receiving the final divorce papers, she needs to get out of the city for a while. Diane and her kids head to upstate New York, where she's decided it's time they met her mother Grace (Jane Fonda). Unlike her daughter, Grace was and is a proud hippie, the unofficial leader of the town's countercultural community who supports herself by selling marijuana. Grace and Diane haven't spoken for nearly twenty years, and just as Grace hasn't changed a bit over the years, Diane hasn't found a way to forgive her for her failings as a parent. As mother and daughter get reacquainted, Zoe has her head turned by Cole (Chace Crawford), even though he's a butcher and she doesn't eat meat, and Jake falls for Tara (Marissa O'Donnell), who he meets at a coffee shop. And as Diane searches for common ground with Grace, she also finds time to be romanced by local musician Jude (Jeffrey Dean Morgan). Peace, Love, & Misunderstanding received its world premiere at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All Peace, Love & Misunderstanding Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 92&nbsp;mins
