Speechless is a 1994 romantic comedy film directed by Ron Underwood. It stars Geena Davis (who also co-produced with her then-husband, director Renny Harlin), Michael Keaton, Bonnie Bedelia, Ernie Hudson, and Christopher Reeve.
Julia Mann (Davis) and Kevin Vallick (Keaton) are insomniac writers who fall in love, but their romance is thrown for a loop because both are writing speeches for rival candidates in a New Mexico election. Julia is working for the Democratic candidate and Kevin for the Republican candidate.
Also complicating matters are Kevin's ex-wife (Bedelia), who is also on the Republican campaign trail, and "Mr. Flack Jacket," television reporter "Bagdad Bob" Freed (Reeve), Julia's estranged fiance, who wants her back.
The movie focuses on two speechwriters for different senatorial candidates in the state of New Mexico. The film is tied up with the American senatorial election of 1994 where only 53 percent voted. It tries to find the roots of the problem by showing how candidates battle for election by undermining each other's efforts.
The film received mostly negative reviews from critics, with Rotten Tomatoes giving Speechless a 12% rating.
The movie debuted at No.5.
The soundtrack included "2 Sides", a track also present on James Armstrong's 2000 album, Got It Goin' On.
tender relationship that may offer compelling clues as to the strangers enigmatic past. After being discovered naked near the water, the mysterious man is taken to a nearby hospital, where he develops an intimate bond with concerned nurse's aide Jiang. Though the language barrier prevents the two men from communicating directly, the bond they establish runs unusually deep. When Jiang learns that the authorities plan on committing the stranger to a mental institution, he quietly sneaks him to his uncle's home in the country. There, Jiang gradually begins to piece together the puzzle that could reveal the identity of his enigmatic soul mate. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Speechless Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 96&nbsp;mins
