The_Double
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 98
Director: Michael Brandt
Cast: Richard Gere,Topher Grace,Martin Sheen,Tamer Hassan,Stephen Moyer,Chris Marquette,Odette Yustman,Stana Katic,Jeffrey Pierce,Nicole Forester,Ed Kelly,Lawrence Gilliard Jr.,Randy Flagler,
Content: A retired CIA spy and a fledgling FBI agent team up to investigate the murder of a U.S. senator and catch a notorious killer in this high-stakes political thriller starring Richard Gere and Topher Grace. Back when he was an active operative, Paul Shepherdson (Gere) devoted his every waking minute to capturing "Cassius" -- an elusive Soviet hitman with a spectral reputation. Decades later, Shepherdson believes that Cassius has been taken out of the game. But when a U.S. senator is assassinated and all evidence links the killing to Cassius, Shepherdson's former boss Tom Highland (Martin Sheen) convinces his old operative to investigate. Meanwhile, FBI agent Ben Geary (Grace) becomes positively certain that the high-profile murder is the work of the notorious Soviet hatchet man, and begins working with Shepherdson to crack the case. Now, in order to learn their target's true identity, Shepherdson and Geary must first revisit the entire case from top to bottom. In the process, the two determined men uncover a clue that indicates Cassius may not, in fact, be the prime suspect that the government has been chasing for decades, but instead the last person anyone ever expected. 
Wiki info: 
The Double is a 2011 spy film, directed by Michael Brandt and starring Richard Gere and Topher Grace. It was released on October 28, 2011.
Two FBI agents are surveilling a warehouse. As a U.S. senator Dennis Darden (Ed Kelly) walks out of the door, he is approached by an assassin from behind who slits his throat and escapes. The agents rush to the scene to find the man dead. However, they could not identify the assassin as he committed the murder in darkness. Later, CIA officers arrive on the scene and take charge.
Retired operative Paul Shepherdson (Richard Gere) is summoned by CIA director Tom Highland (Martin Sheen) to look into the murder. He is introduced to a young FBI agent, Ben Geary (Topher Grace), who is an expert on a former Soviet operative known as Cassius, who Geary predicts to have committed the murder due to his signature throat-slitting method.
Paul and Ben visit Brutus (Stephen Moyer), one of Cassius's proteges, who had been locked up in prison, to learn the whereabouts of Cassius. They provide him with a radio and leave. The prisoner then swallows the batteries from the radio and fakes an upset stomach. Upon arriving at a hospital, he spits out the batteries, overpowers the medical staff, and escapes. In the basement's garage, he is attacked by Paul, who reveals himself to be Cassius. Cassius slits his throat. Upon investigating the crime scene, Ben grows suspicious of Paul. Meanwhile, a Russian terrorist and murderer, Bozlovski (Tamer Hassan), has entered the U.S.
As the investigation deepens, Paul warns Ben to pull out, due to the possibility of harm to his family. Ben, who has become obsessed with the idea that Paul is Cassius, starts his own parallel investigation. Meanwhile, Paul tries to contact Bozlovski in a factory where he escapes after an intense firefight. Ben examines another throat-slitting murder of Bozlovski's associate at the same site and is now convinced Paul is Cassius.
Ben pieces together the events of Paul's life and determines that not only is Paul actually Cassius, but also that he is systematically murdering the people involved in the death of his wife and child, who were assassinated by Bozlovski.
Paul has now tracked down Bozlovski to a shipyard warehouse. A while later, Ben also arrives at the plant. After being confronted with the evidence, Paul confesses everything. Paul then confronts Ben with the fact that Ben is a Russian spy, which Paul learned at one of Ben's informant drop-offs. He is able to convince Ben that Bozlovski is the actual threat. When Ben reveals that he has plans to return to Russia after this is over, Paul tries to convince him to stay in the FBI and with the family he has grown to love.
Together they hunt down Bozlovski inside the shipyard's warehouse. Bozlovski attacks Paul and Ben, and in the ensuing struggle, a mortally wounded Paul slits Bozlovski's throat using his garrote-watch. However, Paul himself later succumbs from his own injuries. As the only witness, FBI agent Ben relays the incident to his superiors and claims that Bozlovski was Cassius, thereby securing Paul's reputation and recognizing his heroism. As Ben departs, the CIA director Highland asks him whether he would ever consider working at the CIA.
The film ends with Ben returning to his home.

