The_Divide
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 122
Director: Xavier Gens
Cast: Lauren German,Michael Biehn,Milo Ventimiglia,Courtney B. Vance,Ashton Holmes,Rosanna Arquette,Ivan Gonzalez,Michael Eklund,Abbey Thickson,
Content: In the wake of a disaster, the tenants of an apartment building turn on one another in this thriller from director Xavier Gens. New York is hit by an unexpected nuclear attack, and Eva (Lauren German) and her husband Sam (Ivan Gonzalez) rush to the basement of their apartment block, believing the cellar is their best bet for safety. They soon discover the basement is the domain of building manager Mickey (Michael Biehn), who is a survivor of the 911 attacks and doesn't put much trust in anyone. Convinced venturing outside will kill them all, Mickey refuses to let anyone leave, and Eva and Sam are trapped with macho bully Josh (Milo Ventimigila), Josh's soft-spoken brother Adrien (Ashton Holmes), loudmouth Bobby (Michael Eklund), high-strung single mother Marilyn (Rosanna Arquette), Marilyn's daughter Wendy (Abbey Thickson), and an impatient man named Delvin (Courtney B. Vance). As the days in the basement turn to weeks and supplies of food and water run low, the neighbors become increasingly tense and violent; eventually, the men and women form cliques and turn against one another. The Divide received its world premiere at the 2011 South by Southwest Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
The Divide is a post-apocalyptic horror film directed by Xavier Gens and written by Karl Mueller and Eron Sheean. It stars Michael Biehn, Lauren German, Milo Ventimiglia and Rosanna Arquette and was released in theaters in the United States on January 13, 2012. It was released on DVD in the United States on April 17, 2012.
As nuclear explosions ravage New York City, the apartment block residents rush downstairs to escape the building, only to be forced into the basement by further explosions. Only eight of the residents—Eva and her boyfriend Sam, Josh and his brother Adrien, Josh's friend Bobby, Marilyn and her daughter Wendi, and Devlin—manage to force their way into the building's bomb shelter before the superintendent (Mickey) seals the door. The group acclimatises to the cramped surroundings whilst Mickey asserts his dominance over the shelter and its denizens much to the chagrin of Josh, Bobby, and Devlin. After time passes the shelter's door is broken open and the shelter is invaded by armed soldiers in biohazard suits; the men's speech is unintelligible and their allegiance remains ambiguous. The men attack the group and seize Wendi, leaving the shelter with her. Devlin and Mickey manage to kill three of the men and Mickey takes a rifle. Josh volunteers to use one of the dead soldier's suits to leave the shelter and search for Wendi.
Outside of the shelter, Josh finds the area entirely sealed off by plastic sheet tunnels connected to a laboratory. Josh's outfit allows him to explore the lab where he discovers several unconscious children—including Wendi—in stasis units; their hair shaved off and their eyes bandaged. One of the soldiers checks the ID on Josh's suit and, realising he is an imposter, tears out his breathing apparatus, exposing Josh to the air. Josh flees back to the shelter, killing two of the soldiers on the way. After Josh returns the soldiers weld the door shut from the outside, trapping all within. Time passes; Josh begins to suffer the effects of his exposure and admits to Adrien that he only went outside to find rescue for Adrien and himself. Eva, in a fractured relationship with the meek Sam grows closer to Adrien. Bobby volunteers to hack up the bodies of the dead soldiers so their decaying remains can be thrown into the toilet septic tank. Devlin grows suspicious that Mickey is hoarding resources. Marilyn, having been told by Josh that her child is dead, enters a sexual relationship with Bobby.
Marilyn attempts to convince Eva to sleep with Josh, warning her that the men will want sex. The group grows increasingly angry with Mickey as resources grow scarce, culminating when Devlin discovers Mickey's locked safe room and threatens him with a taser to open it. A scuffle ensues and Mickey shoots Devlin dead with the machine gun. The group do not believe Mickey's argument of self defence and an increasingly ill Josh—and an increasingly deranged Bobby—torture him to gain the code to the safe room. Eva throws the machine gun into the toilet to stop Josh using it. Seizing authority, Josh and Bobby are physically and emotionally abusive of Marilyn. Josh makes it clear that he wants Eva, and Sam is unable to stand up for her. Eva and Sam try to protect Marilyn from Josh and Bobby, but are unable to. While Eva is tasked with watching Mickey, Mickey reveals that there is a gun hidden in his safe room.
Josh and Bobby force Eva to hack up Devlin's corpse when Sam cannot, leaving Eva distraught. Josh and Bobby, both losing their hair to radiation sickness, shave their heads. Mickey informs Eva that there is another way out of the shelter; through the septic tank to the sewer. Eva tries to retrieve the gun, but cannot get past the pair. She finds Marilyn's corpse, the two having beaten her to death. Eva notices her hair is falling out and realizes she is also sick; the shelter is not protecting them from the outside because of the broken door. Eva sends Sam to retrieve the gun while she cuts the power to distract Bobby and lures Josh away with the promise of sex. Josh grows suspicious and tries to rape Eva, but she fights him off with help from Adrien. Sam retrieves the gun, but as Bobby, Josh, Eva, and Adrien yell instructions at him, Sam shoots and kills Adrien. Josh brutally beats Sam. Bobby turns on Josh and is about to shoot him when Eva cuts his throat with a tin can lid. Eva frees Mickey who shoots Josh. Josh smashes an oil lamp, setting himself alight and causing a fire in the shelter. While Sam and Mickey attempt to put out the blaze, Eva chooses to escape. She recovers the biohazard suit, and locks herself in the safe room, leaving Mickey and Sam trapped outside, where both die in the fire's flashover.
Breaking through the toilet into the septic tank below, Eva drops into the tank and finds a ladder to the street. She emerges into the remains of the city and stares blankly at the total devastation.

