The_Assault
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 95
Director: Julien Leclercq
Cast: 
Content: Julien Leclercq examines a terrorist plot from several points of view in this tense thriller based on a true story. In late December 1994, an airliner took off from Algeria bound for Paris, but once the plane was in the air, it became clear this would not be an ordinary flight. Members of the Algerian Armed Islamic Group, led by Yahia (Aymen Saidi), were onboard, and they took over the jet in order to stage an attack on the Eiffel Tower. Negotiators were able to arrange for the plane to land in Marseille for fuel, and the hijackers were met by French Special Forces operatives who were determined to save the hostages and take down the terrorists. L'Assaut (aka The Assault) examines the hijacking and the raid on the jet from three perspectives -- Yahia, Thierry (Vincent Elbaz), one of the policemen taking part in the raid, and Carole (Melanie Bernier),  a low-level Ministry of the Interior employee who believes her language skills will give her a chance to shine in the crisis. The Assault received its U.S. debut at the 2011 Tribeca Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
The Assault (Dutch: De aanslag) is a 1986 film adaptation of the novel of the same name by Harry Mulisch. The film was directed and produced by Fons Rademakers. The main character is played by both Derek de Lint (in the present) and Marc van Uchelen (as a youth), whereas Monique van de Ven plays two different roles, one in the present (his wife) and one in the past (a woman who participated in the assault and whom he meets later the same night in a dark police cell).
Anton Steenwijk's family was killed by the Nazis and his house was set on fire in 1945, after the corpse of a collaborator, executed by the Dutch resistance, was found outside his house. The story moves between the end of the Second World War and the 1980s, following Steenwijk's quest for truth.
The film won the 1986 Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, the Golden Globe Award for Best Foreign Language Film and the Golden Space Needle of the Seattle International Film Festival.


