One_for_the_Money
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 91
Director: Julie Ann Robinson
Cast: Katherine Heigl,Jason O'Mara,Sherri Shepherd,Debbie Reynolds,Daniel Sunjata,Patrick Fischler,John Leguizamo,Ana Reeder,Gavin-Keith Umeh,Ryan Michelle Bathe,Nate Mooney,Debra Monk,Louis Mustillo,Annie Parisse,Fisher Stevens,Danny Mastrogiorgio,Leonardo Nam,Adam Paul,
Content: Recently divorced and desperate for a job following a string of misfortunes, 30-year-old Stephanie Plum (Katherine Heigl) goes to work at her cousin's bail-bond business, and begins investigating her first case. On the plus side, Stephanie proves to be a resourceful employee with a skill for ferreting out the truth; on the minus side, her first case is that of a Trenton, N.J., cop who broke her heart in high school and now stands accused of murder. 
Wiki info: 
One for the Money is a 2012 comedy film based on the 1994 novel of the same name by Janet Evanovich. Directed by Julie Anne Robinson, the screenplay was written by Liz Brixius, Karen McCullah Lutz and Kirsten Smith. It stars Katherine Heigl, Jason O'Mara, Debbie Reynolds, Daniel Sunjata and Sherri Shepherd.
The film was universally panned by critics and failed to recoup its $40 million budget at the box office.
Stephanie Plum (Katherine Heigl), out of work and out of cash, turns in desperation to her disreputable cousin Vinnie, of Vinnie's Bail Bonds, for work. Despite having no equipment, training or particular skill she becomes a bail enforcement agent, chasing after Vinnie's highest stakes bail jumper: Joe Morelli, a former vice cop who is wanted for murder and whoever would catch him would get 50 thousand dollars, who also happened to seduce and dump Stephanie back in high school after taking her virginity.
In the midst of the chase, Stephanie has to deal with her meddling family, a problematic tendency of witnesses who die when she gets too close, and lessons in bounty hunting from the mysterious Ranger (Daniel Sunjata). When she finally catches up to Morelli, she realizes that the case against him doesn't add up and that the old flame from their school days may just be rekindling.

