The_Good_Doctor
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 91
Director: Lance Daly
Cast: Orlando Bloom,Riley Keough,Taraji P. Henson,Rob Morrow,Michael Peña,Troy Garity,Molly Price,Wade Williams,Sorel Carradine,Evan Peters,Nathan Keyes,J.K. Simmons,
Content: A physician heads down a dangerous road when he sets aside his ethics in this thriller from director Lance Daly. Martin Blake (Orlando Bloom) is a British medical student who has come to the United States to begin a residency at a hospital in Southern California. He is handsome and charming, but beneath the surface he's an arrogant man who longs to wield power over others. Blake doesn't fare well with his first few patients, and is on shaky ground with his superiors when he begins treating Diane (Riley Keough), a beautiful teenager with a kidney infection. Diane is clearly taken with Blake's good looks and they enjoy one another's company, while his superiors are impressed with his care for her. But Blake doesn't want Diane released too quickly, and he begins adjusting her medication so that her infection will take longer to clear up. Jimmy (Michael Peña), an orderly, notices what Blake is doing, and threatens to expose him unless he gets what he wants -- a steady supply of pharmaceuticals. Also starring Rob Morrow, Taraji P. Henson, and J.K. Simmons, The Good Doctor received its world premiere at the 2011 Tribeca Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
The Good Doctor is a 2011 American thriller film directed by Lance Daly, and starring Orlando Bloom as the eponymous "good doctor".
British medical student Martin E. Blake transfers to a Southern California hospital to start his residency. Handsome and ostensibly charming, Martin is in reality an arrogant individual who longs to wield power over others. This attitude quickly alienates him from the nurses, whom he perceives as not respecting him to the extent he deserves. After Martin fails to endear himself to his first few patients and ends up on thin ice with his superiors, 18-year-old Diane Nixon comes in suffering from a kidney infection, which Martin treats. Diane and her family hail Martin as a hero, inflating his self-esteem. As Diane's health begins to improve, Martin selfishly begins tampering with her medications and intentionally botching her treatment while maintaining the illusion that he is doing everything within his power to nurse her back to health. Ultimately, he goes too far and accidentally kills Diane by allowing the infection to go beyond even his control.
An orderly, Jimmy, discovers a diary in which Diane has recorded sexual fantasies about Martin. Recognizing that even the implication of an improper doctor-patient relationship could potentially damage Martin's career, Jimmy uses the diary to blackmail Martin into providing him with narcotics. When Jimmy reveals that he intends to never hand over the diary, Martin laces the drugs with potassium cyanide and kills Jimmy, then breaks into his locker and steals the diary.
During the course of the criminal investigation in Jimmy's death, Martin is questioned by a police detective who comes to visit him at his home. Martin becomes panicked and visibly anxious during the questioning, eventually locking himself in the bathroom and attempting to flush the diary down the toilet. When the toilet clogs, Martin climbs out the window and goes to the ocean, where he contemplates suicide. Instead, he sneaks back into his apartment and puts the diary in the garbage. With no evidence to implicate Martin in Jimmy's death, the detective leaves.
An unspecified amount of time later, Martin returns to his duties at the hospital, assuring a young patient "I'm getting better all the time."

