The_Courier
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 97
Director: Hany Abu-Assad
Cast: 
Content: A shady FBI agent (Til Schweiger) recruits a Courier (Jeffrey Dean Morgan) to deliver a mysterious package to a vengeful master criminal (Mickey Rourke) who has recently resurfaced with a diabolical plan in this action thriller from Paradise Now director Hany Abu-Assad. 
Wiki info: 
The Courier is a 2012 direct-to-video actioner directed by Hany Abu-Assad and produced by Michael Arata, starring Jeffrey Dean Morgan as protagonist.
"The Courier" lives under pathetic circumstances in a very derelict flat where he even talks to a mouse that he has adopted as his pet. When he visits his old friend Stitch (Mark Margolis) at his boxing gym, he is contacted by a stranger (Til Schweiger) who charges him with a suitcase that must be delivered to a man known as "Evil Sivle". The stranger doesn't tell him the whereabouts of the recipient but explains to him that the finding of this person is the actual task. It is made unequivocally clear that the courier is at no liberty to refuse this mission and shall expect his own death should he fail. Since the hero is a nifty hacker he can get a start by accessing the FBI database. Moreover he is supported by Anna (Josie Ho), a relative of Stitch. Even so, his attempts to find the man only lead to killings. After another testimonial has been killed right under his eyes, the hero is arrested by police. To his surprise he is soon released and finds out that his unrequested client works for the FBI. He visits him at home and learns that the suitcase is from Russia and that the FBI considers it the only chance to get to Evil Sivle, who is an infamous assassin. The FBI agent also points out that Evil Sivle is about to turn tables with "the Courier".
Consequently the hero is attacked in his flat and is eventually tortured by a couple of sadistic henchmen who check out how much information he has so far. When they give him a rest, he manages to escape and finds a new trace. When he finally confronts Evil Sivle, it turns out that it is Maxwell (Mickey Rourke), who once was his friend and who took his son from him.

