Airborne
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 80
Director: Dominic Burns
Cast: Mark Hamill - Malcolm,Billy Murray - Cutter,Simon Phillips - Alan,Gemma Atkinson - Harriett,Jamie Edgerton - Commander of a special forces unit,Dixie Arnold - special forces unit member,Julian Glover - George,Alan Ford - Max,Craig Conway - Luke,Forbes KB - Gabriel Smoker,Sebastian Street - Agent Moss,Allison McKenzie - Agent Millward,Faz Aoufi - special forces unit member,Peter Barrett - Kenny,Jazz Lintott - Roberto,Emma Buckley - Lindsay,Dominic Burns - Bob,Rita Ramnani - Claire,Sean Cernow - special forces unit member,Raji James - Kailash,Chelsea Fitzpatrick - Roxy,Luke Gomes - special forces unit member,Chris Brazier - Chris,Fiona Ryan - Rachel,Philip Harvey - special forces unit member,Kimberly Jaraj - Laura,Andrew Shim - Sam,Robin Harvey - special forces unit member,Anthony Styles - Phil,Jamie Dorrington - Security guard,James Littlewood - Baggage handler,Phil Alias Smith - special forces unit member,
Content: When the pilots on Atlantic Flight 686 are mysteriously murdered and passengers become infected with a virus that transforms them into rampaging maniacs, the few sane survivors must figure out a way to land the plane safely, and avoid the pathogen at all costs. Meanwhile, down on the ground, air traffic controller Malcolm (Mark Hammill) watches in terror as the massive jet vanishes from the radar while flying straight into the eye of a violent storm. 
Wiki info: 
Airborne is a 2012 horror film written by Paul Chronnell and directed by Dominic Burns who describes Airborne as a tongue-in-cheek film in the tradition of The Twilight Zone. A first trailer was released in 2011. It was reported in the media that it presents Mark Hamill's first appearance in a British film, however Hamill had acted previously in the 1982 British film Britannia Hospital. Airborne's introduction, before sporting a voice-over by Mark Hamill, refers in writing to a so-called Firelight Protocol.
Despite an approaching winter storm a near-empty airliner takes off from London for New York. One-by-one the passengers begin to disappear, while one passenger who frequents the route notices the plane has turned where it should be flying straight. Soon the pilots are discovered dead, the plane on auto pilot, and it's revealed that two on board are hijackers who have murdered the pilots to take control of the plane; the passengers who disappeared were killed when they witnessed parts of the hijacking. The hijackers intend to steal and sell both the plane and an ancient vase being transported on board which, according to legend, acts as a prison for a death god. The passengers try to hinder the hijackers but they are unable to overpower them and instead wind up tied to the seats of the plane, the hijackers planning to use them as hostages. Meanwhile, air traffic control becomes alarmed; they have lost radio contact with the plane as it first veers off course and then disappears from radar. They alert the authorities, who assume the plane has been taken over by terrorists and send fighter aircraft to intercept it. As fighter planes take off and close in on the airliner the would-be hostages escape their bonds. The people on the hijacked airliner begin to go violently crazy, killing themselves and each other without apparent reason; the incorporeal death god has been released from the vase and is possessing people, trying to find a suitable host. The airliner passes into South American airspace, causing the fighter jets to give up pursuit; then the air controllers watch in horror as the plane begins to descend, its trajectory sending it into the ocean. One of the passengers has disabled the autopilot and is flying the plane into the ocean to prevent the death god from being released into the world. A passenger possessed by the death god and one of the hijackers try to stop the plane from crashing, but they fail; the death god leaves the passenger's body at the last moment, giving her only enough time to scream into the radio before the plane hits the water. Back in London the air controllers are marched out of the control room by the authorities, who mean to leave no witnesses. The eyes of one of the controllers flash blue as he is possessed by the death god.

