Cyberstalker
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 90
Director: Curtis Crawford
Cast: Mischa Barton,Ron Lea,Daniel Levy,Marco Grazzini,Natalie Brown,Dan Levy,Peter Dillon,Mark Caven,Chantal Quesnel,Kevin Jubinville,
Content: Thirteen years after her cyber-stalker murdered her parents and eluded arrest, Aiden has yet to go back online. Years of therapy have done little to assuage her fears, and she leads an anonymous life off the grid. Now, someone is watching Aiden from afar, awaiting the perfect moment to strike. As the fearful young woman struggles find someone she can trust, she realizes that every move she makes could be her last. 
Wiki info: 
Cyberstalker (a.k.a. Offline) is a 2012 Lifetime television thriller directed by Curtis Crawford and starring Mischa Barton. Barton stars as a young artist living in seclusion since her parents were murdered by her stalker thirteen years earlier; her peace is suddenly disturbed by his reappearance. On 10 July 2012, a trailer was released. It was televised in the United States on 14 September, 2012.
Aiden Ashley's family life was torn apart thirteen years earlier when her online stalker tracked her down to her home and in an avalanche of terror, murdered both her parents. Her stalker fled the crime scene without ever revealing his face to Aiden.
As a precaution, Aiden shuns the Internet for the next thirteen years, opting to stay off-line, attending therapy sessions and living in seclusion. She breaks this seclusion after her friend and art dealer, Winton Cornelis, convinces her to hold a public art gala showcasing her work. The gala marks a turn in her personal life, after she becomes romantically involved with a guest, Paul Rogers.
Meanwhile, Detective James Page continues to work on the unsolved case of Aiden's parents' murder. Page hires Jack Dayton, a cyber-security whiz, to research Aiden’s life. Dayton makes the shocking discovery that Aiden’s stalker continues to lurk. Aiden's stalker follows her undetected and installs secret cameras in her home.
Suspicion turns to Aiden's art dealer, with the discovery of suspicious financial transactions between his and Aiden's bank accounts. Things do not also appear as they seem as Aiden's love interest Paul's violent past is revealed. Furthermore, Detective Page's involvement is curious; he is the only one meticulously following a cold case after thirteen years. Gradually Aiden's stalker becomes ever more desperate to be a part of her life. But Aiden is determined not to let this man blow her life apart once more. Jack Dayton is the killer and is shot by Detective Page. 
Filming on the project began on 15 June 2011 in Ottawa and was completed in three weeks.

