Taken_2
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 92
Director: Olivier Megaton
Cast: Liam Neeson,Maggie Grace,Famke Janssen,Rade Šerbedžija,Leland Orser,Jon Gries,D.B. Sweeney,Luke Grimes,Kevork Malikyan,Luenell,Olivier Rabourdin,
Content: His family targeted by a vengeful crime boss in Istanbul, retired CIA agent Bryan Mills (Liam Neeson) must fight an army of killers to ensure their safe return in this action sequel from director Olivier Megaton (Transporter 3) and producerco-writer Luc Besson (who penned the screenplay alongside Taken scribe Robert Mark Kamen). As the families of the kidnappers killed by Mills gather together for a mass funeral, their leader Merad (Rade Sherbedgia) vows to make the man who brought them so much misery pay. Meanwhile, back in the U.S., Mills invites his ex-wife Lenore (Famke Janssen) and their daughter Kim (Maggie Grace) to join him on a trip to Istanbul after their long-planned trip to China falls through. Later, in Istanbul, the family is settling in and enjoying the sites when Merad's gang abducts Mills and Lenore. Communicating with her father via a hidden cell phone, Kim accesses his secret weapons cache and embarks on a frantic race through an unfamiliar city in a bid to rescue her parents from certain death. Once she manages to free her father, Mills puts his "particular set of skills" to use while attempting to rescue his Lenore, and escape Merad's unrelenting attack. 
Wiki info: 
Taken 2 is a 2012 English-language French action thriller film directed by Olivier Megaton which stars a wide international cast including Liam Neeson, Maggie Grace, Famke Janssen and Rade Šerbedžija. It is the sequel to the 2008 film Taken and was released on 3 October 2012.
Despite receiving mixed to negative reviews by critics, Taken 2 was a box office success, like its predecessor.
The funerals of the Albanian mobsters killed by Bryan Mills (Liam Neeson) in the prior film are held in Tropojë, Albania. Murad (Rade Šerbedžija), the leader of the gang and father of Marko, whom Bryan had killed by electrocution, vows to capture Bryan, bring him to the graves and avenge their loved ones. Murad and his men torture Jean-Claude Pitrel (the corrupt policeman from Taken) to try to learn Bryan's location. They end up bribing an official for the information.
Kim (Maggie Grace) and her mother Lenore (Famke Janssen), who is currently having marital problems, surprise Bryan by joining him in Istanbul, Turkey, where he has just finished a three-day security job. The next day, Lenore and Bryan go out for lunch. Bryan realizes they are being followed. After a chase, the men capture Lenore, forcing Bryan to surrender, but before he does, he calls Kim and warns her. Her would-be abductors shoot another hotel guest and two security guards, but fail to find her and are forced to flee.
Bryan wakes with his hands tied to a pole in a dark room. Using a communication device that he had hidden in his sock, Bryan calls Kim, instructing her to go to the US Embassy and tell them what happened, but she begs for a chance to help him and Lenore. Under Bryan's guidance, she opens his suitcase, containing weapons, and throws a grenade onto a deserted rooftop parking lot. Bryan uses the time it takes for the sound of the explosion to reach him to help locate where he is.
He then has her take a gun and two more grenades and take to the rooftops, while he frees himself from his restraints. Two more grenade detonations enable Bryan to guide Kim close enough to see steam he sends up a chimney to mark his precise location. Kim tosses the gun down the chimney. Bryan uses it to kill the Albanians in the building, then saves Kim from her rooftop pursuer. Lenore, however, is taken away by her captors.
Leaving Kim at the embassy, Bryan retraces the route to Murad's safehouse he memorized from his abduction. After killing the rest of the gangsters and rescuing Lenore, he confronts Murad, who confirms Bryan's guess that his two remaining sons will seek revenge if Bryan kills him. Bryan offers to let Murad live if he gives his word to end his vendetta. When the man nods his head, Bryan drops his gun and starts to walk away. Murad seizes it and tries to shoot Bryan, only to discover that Bryan has removed the bullets. Bryan kills Murad.
Three weeks later, the Mills family are at a diner back home in Los Angeles to celebrate Kim passing her driving test. They are joined, much to Bryan's surprise, by Kim's boyfriend Jamie. Kim jokingly asks her overprotective father not to shoot him.

