On_the_Inside
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 90
Director: D.W. Brown
Cast: Nick Stahl,Dash Mihok,Olivia Wilde,Pruitt Taylor Vince,Shohreh Aghdashloo,Tariq Trotter,Daniel Franzese,Daniel London,Joanne Baron,Haley Webb,
Content: A man with a dark past attempts to atone for his crimes by shielding a pretty mental patient from the growing violence in a corrupt psychiatric hospital. Allen Meneric murdered out of revenge, but he got the wrong guy. Now he's been sentenced to be evaluated at the Northwood mental institution. Northwood houses some of the most criminals ever committed. But when the doctors launch a new initiative aimed at socializing low-risk inmates, David meets Mia, who has been struggling with bipolar disorder for two years. Just as David and Mia begin to form a bond of trust, however, chaos erupts inside Northwood, and David must fight to protect Mia from a sadistic inmate (Dash Mihok) whose brutality knows no bounds. 
Wiki info: 
On the Inside is a thriller film written and directed by D.W Brown.
Allen Meneric (Nick Stahl) is sent to a hospital for the criminally insane to be evaluated after he brutally murders his girlfriend’s alleged rapist. He very quickly becomes surrounded by evil psychopaths, people with seemingly mild personality disorders, sarcastic guards and indifferent doctors.
In a courtyard Allen has a chance meeting with Ben (Pruitt Taylor Vince). Ben's outgoing pleasant nature helps to initiate a friendship with Allen who is more inclined to keep to himself. Ben's state of mind, however, fluctuates and leads to endless droning, short-term memory loss, and occasional catatonic episodes as the film progresses.
Ben introduces Allen to Carl Tarses (Dash Mihok) who strikes fear into everyone he meets. He has deeply rooted emotional problems from parental abuse in his childhood. Terrorizing people gives Carl a sinister form of satisfaction. Things erupt between Carl and Allen after Carl describes some of his prior heinous acts to him.
Allen's good behavior gets him transferred to a minimum security section of the hospital where low risk males and females are able to interact. There he meets Mia (Olivia Wilde) who is both beautiful and bipolar. Mia and Allen instantly fall for each other and their budding romance causes them to smile and laugh for the first time. In a tragic twist of fate, Allen and Mia's private encounter, arranged by Mrs. Standings (Joanne Baron), a sincere and caring staff member, is violently interrupted by Tarses as he attempts to escape from the hospital.
All of the filming took place in Pittsburgh in the Prospect Street School in the city's Mt. Washington neighborhood. Originally titled “In Northwood,” the film was renamed as part of the producer’s effort to shift the focus away from the facility where Allen Meneric (Nick Stahl) was committed to the demons lurking in the minds of all of the characters in the story.

