Argo
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 120
Director: Ben Affleck
Cast: Ben Affleck,Bryan Cranston,Alan Arkin,John Goodman,Tate Donovan,Clea DuVall,Christopher Denham,Scoot McNairy,Kerry Bishe,Rory Cochrane,Victor Garber,Kyle Chandler,Chris Messina,Željko Ivanek,Titus Welliver,Bob Gunton,Philip Baker Hall,Richard Kind,Richard Dillane,Keith Szarabajka,Michael Parks,Tom Lenk,Christopher Stanley,Page Leong,Taylor Schilling,Ashley Wood,Barry Livingston,Sheila Vand,Omid Abtahi,Karina Logue,Adrienne Barbeau,Fouad Hajji,
Content: When militants seize control of the U.S. embassy in Tehran during the height of the Iranian Revolution, CIA agent Tony Mendez (Ben Affleck) creates a fake Hollywood film production in order to rescue a group of American diplomats who have sought refuge at the home of the Canadian ambassador. As the six members of the embassy staff remain behind closed doors, armed militants conduct thorough searches of local homes, and kill anyone suspected of harboring the Americans. Realizing that it's only a matter of time before the six are identified and taken hostage, Mendez offers a unique - yet potentially dangerous - solution: posing as a Canadian film producer, he will enter into Tehran under the precipice of scouting locations for an upcoming science fiction opus, gather up the refugees, pass them off as his crew at the airport, and fly out of Iran right under the militants' noses. Shortly after touching down in Iran, however, Mendez contends with a few unexpected developments that threaten to erode the bond of trust he needs to establish with the refugees, and expose his deception. Meanwhile, even if they do manage to make it as far as the airport, government bureaucracy threatens to leave them hopelessly stranded in their most desperate hour. Alan Arkin, John Goodman, and Bryan Cranston co-star. Inspired by actual events. 
Wiki info: 
Argo is a 2012 historical drama thriller film directed by Ben Affleck. This dramatization is adapted from the book The Master of Disguise by CIA operative Tony Mendez, and Joshuah Berman's 2007 Wired article "The Great Escape" about the "Canadian Caper", in which Mendez led the rescue of six U.S. diplomats from Tehran, Iran, during the 1979 Iran hostage crisis.
The film stars Affleck as Mendez with Bryan Cranston, Alan Arkin, and John Goodman in supporting roles, and was released in North America to critical and commercial success on October 12, 2012. The film was produced by Grant Heslov, Ben Affleck, and George Clooney. The story of this rescue was also told in the 1981 television movie Escape from Iran: The Canadian Caper, directed by Lamont Johnson.
Upon release, Argo received widespread acclaim and also received seven nominations for the 85th Academy Awards and won three, for Best Film Editing, Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Picture. The film also earned five Golden Globe nominations, winning Best Picture – Drama and Best Director, while being nominated for Best Supporting Actor for Arkin. It won the award for the Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture at the 19th Screen Actors Guild Awards with Alan Arkin being nominated for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role. It also won Best Film, Best Editing, and Best Director at the 66th British Academy Film Awards.
Diplomats at the United States embassy in Tehran look out their windows in increasing concern as protesters rally outside the embassy gate in anger over the CIA involvement in Iran. As militants begin climbing over the gate, all documents are ordered to be destroyed, while American soldiers stationed at the embassy attempt to hold off the crowd with tear gas and smoke grenades. However, their incinerator burns out, forcing them to shred the rest of the documents. Just as the militants barge in and start taking hostages, six diplomats manage to escape via a back door. Among them are Robert Anders (Tate Donovan), Cora Amburn-Lijek (Clea DuVall), Mark Lijek (Christopher Denham), Joseph Stafford (Scoot McNairy), Kathleen Stafford (Kerry Bishe), and Lee Schatz (Rory Cochrane). They sneak through the back streets of Tehran and go to both the British Embassy and the New Zealand Embassy in search of a hiding place before being accepted by Canadian ambassador Ken Taylor (Victor Garber). With the escapees' situation kept secret, the US State Department begins to explore options for exfiltrating them from Iran. Tony Mendez (Ben Affleck), a CIA exfiltration specialist brought in for consultation, criticizes the proposals, but is at a loss for an alternative. While on the phone with his son, he is inspired by watching Battle for the Planet of the Apes and begins plans for creating a cover story for the escapees being Canadian filmmakers scouting for exotic locations in Iran for a similar science-fiction film.
Mendez and his supervisor Jack O'Donnell (Bryan Cranston) contact John Chambers (John Goodman), a Hollywood make-up artist who has previously crafted disguises for the CIA. Chambers puts them in touch with film producer Lester Siegel (Alan Arkin). Together they set up a phony film studio, publicize their plans, and successfully establish the pretense of developing Argo, a "science fantasy" in the style of Star Wars, to lend credibility to the cover story. Meanwhile, the escapees grow frantic inside the ambassador's residence. It is discovered that the Iranian maid, Sahar, (Sheila Vand) knows about the escapees. Unsure whether or not she can be trusted, they realize that their hiding days are numbered. Back at the invaded American Embassy, revolutionaries discover while reassembling the remaining shredded documents, including Photos of the diplomats, that there had been six diplomats who had escaped.
Mendez flies out to Istanbul where he receives his fake ID and passport. Then, posing as a producer for Argo, Mendez goes to the Iranian Embassy, receiving a visa. Then he flies into Tehran and links up with the six escapees. He provides them with Canadian passports and fake identities to prepare them to get through security at the airport. Although afraid to trust Mendez's scheme, they reluctantly go along with it, knowing that he is risking his own life too. A scouting visit to the bazaar to maintain their cover story takes a bad turn, but their Iranian culture contact gets them away from the hostile crowd. Unknown to the group, a hidden camera had snapped photos of them.
Mendez is told that the operation has been cancelled to avoid conflicting with a planned military rescue of the hostages. He pushes ahead, forcing O'Donnell to hastily re-obtain authorization for the mission to get tickets on a Swissair flight. Mendez and the escapees arrive at Mehrabad International Airport and get through security with ease. Tension rises however when a group of security guards begin asking them questions at the gate. To double check that the group was actually working for a film company, one of the guards call the supposed studio in Hollywood, and is answered at the last second. Convinced, the guards allow the group to board the plane. Meanwhile, the photos that were taken by the hidden camera at the bazaar are presented to the lead militant at the American Embassy who immediately discovers that the photos match up with the reassembled photos of the escapees, that had been shredded. The guards at Mehrabad Airport are notified just as the plane begins to taxi to the runway. the guards climb into trucks and drive out onto the airfield where they are accompanied by several Tehran police cars just as the plane starts to take off. They drive onto the runway alongside the plane as it begins to gain speed, in an attempt to stop the take off. The pilot however does not notice and proceeds to take off, effectively saving Mendez and the escapees.
To protect the hostages remaining in Tehran from retaliation, all US involvement in the rescue is suppressed, giving full credit to the Canadian government and its ambassador (who left Iran with his wife under their own credentials as the operation was underway; their Iranian housekeeper, who had known about the Americans and lied to the revolutionaries to protect them, escaped to Iraq). Mendez is awarded the Intelligence Star, but due to the classified nature of the mission, he would not be able to keep the medal until the details were made public in 1997. All the hostages were freed on January 20, 1981. The film ends with former President Jimmy Carter's speech about the Crisis and the Canadian Caper.

