Chained
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 94
Director: Jennifer Lynch
Cast: Vincent D'Onofrio - Bob,Julia Ormond - Sarah Fittler,Jake Weber - Brad Fittler,Eamon Farren - Teenage Rabbit,Evan Bird - Young Rabbit,Gina Philips - Marie,Conor Leslie - Angie,
Content: Director Jennifer Lynch (Boxing Helena, Surveillance) details the bizarre relationship between a depraved serial killer and the young boy he attempts to forcefully shape into his protege in this dark psychological thriller starring Vincent D'Onofrio. Sarah (Julia Ormond) and her eight year old son Tim (Even Bird) were returning home from the movies when they made the fateful mistake of stepping into a taxi driven by depraves psycho Bob (D'Onofrio), who brutally murders the terrified mother before chain the young boy in his basement, and making him an unwitting accomplice to murder. Each time Bob kills, Evan is forced to clean up every last trace of evidence. When Evan repeatedly tried to escape, Bob renames him Rabbit, and locks him up with just enough chain that he can move through the house with no hope for escape. Over the course of the next few years, Bob shapes Rabbit (played as a teen by Eamon Farren) into the perfect killing machine. Later, when the time comes for Rabbit to embrace the life of a serial killer, he realizes that his may be his last chance to strike back at the madman who made his life a living hell. 
Wiki info: 
Chained is a 2012 psychological thrillerslasher film directed by Jennifer Lynch, starring Vincent D'Onofrio, Julia Ormond and Eamon Farren.
The film stars Vincent D'Onofrio as Bob, a cab driving serial killer who stalks his victims on the streets alongside his reluctant young protege, Tim aka Rabbit. Abducted by Bob as a child, and now in his teens, Rabbit realizes that his only way to survive might be following in his captors footsteps and thus becoming like the monster who considers himself his father.
The film began a 14 day shoot in and around Regina and Moose Jaw, Canada on 27 June 2011, using Canada Saskatchewan Production Studios for interiors.
Director Jennifer Lynch has a cameo as a cooking show host on TV.
Chained had its world premiere at the Fantasia Festival in Montreal on 5 August 2012 and was shown in seven German cities (Berlin, Hamburg, Cologne, Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart und Nuremburg) as part of the annual traveling Fantasy Filmfest, starting 25 August 2012. It was released direct-to-video on DVD and Blu-ray in the US on 2 October 2012.
The film was originally rated NC-17 by the MPAA for "some explicit violence" but was later edited to achieve an R rating for "disturbing and sadistic violent content including bloody killings and rape, and for language and sexuality."
Both director Jennifer Lynch and star Vincent D'Onofrio, stated they would have preferred to release the film under its working title Rabbit, but the studio would not comply.

