Reykjavik-Rotterdam
Released Year: 2008
Running time: 86
Director: Oskar Jonasson
Cast: 
Content: An Icelandic crime thriller with the gloss stripped away, director Oskar Jonasson's Reykjavik-Rotterdam hones in on a down-and-outer at the very end of his rope. For Kristofer (Baltasar Kormakur) life has been little more than a never ending series of failures and disappointments. Among other things, he made the colossal mistake of smuggling alcohol during his tenure as a shipworker - a little stunt that promptly landed him behind bars. Now, following release, he struggles to pull his life together while working as a security guard and continually attempts to support his family. Then the opportunity arises for Kristofer to do one final tour on a freighter running from Reykjavik, Iceland, to Rotterdam, Holland. Kristofer initially embraces the opportunity to work with his old friends once again - little foreseeing the malestorm of crime into which this move will plunge him. 
Wiki info: 
Reykjavik-Rotterdam is an Icelandic film directed by Óskar Jónasson and starring Baltasar Kormakur.
Like a fish on a dry land, Kristofer is stuck in a dull everyday routine, working as a security guard. He was fired from the freight ship on which he worked when he was caught smuggling alcohol. Faced with money problems, he is tempted to accept the help of his friend, Steingrimur, who manages to pull some strings to get his old job back. He decides to take his chances one last time on a tour to Rotterdam.
The film was released on October 3, 2008. It was broadcast (dubbed in German) on German television ARD on 1 January 2010.
Reykjavik-Rotterdam is one of the biggest-budget Icelandic films of all-time, and features an all-star cast of Icelandic cinema. The film garnered a four-star rating from Morgunblaðið, and has a 'fresh' rating of 8.210 at Rottentomatoes.com.
The film won five Edda Awards, including best script, director, editing, sound, and music:
An Icelandic Film and Television Academy committee chose Reykjavik-Rotterdam to be Iceland's submission to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for the 82nd Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film, though it failed to receive an Oscar nomination.
Variety, after a 2010 screening at the Palm Springs International Film Festival called it a "straightforward product from much of the team behind Baltasar Kormakur's considerably more eccentric Jar City" and an "uncommonly commercial item with brawny action, strokes of humor and a besieged rooting interest (played effectively by Kormakur."
Working Title Films released a U.S. remake entitled Contraband starring and produced by Mark Wahlberg. The original film's lead actor, Baltasar Kormakur — a successful director in his home country of Iceland — took on the role of director.

