Six_Reasons_Why
Released Year: 2008
Running time: 89
Director: Matthew Campagna
Cast: 
Content: In a future where society has come full circle and man lives by the code of the cowboy, a fugitive, a vengeful son, a killer, and a shifty servant stand in a four-way face-off from which only one man can walk away. To the east lies seven boomtowns connected by railroad, and to the west is a Utopian community that cowers in fear of the outside world. Dividing these two areas is an arid stretch of desert known only as "The Badlands." Few who go into the Badlands are ever seen again, and when "The Nomad" is cast out from his hometown in the west he vows never to let a living soul reach Utopia. For twelve long years "The Nomad" has wandered the desert plotting a path back home, and he's taking his trusty horse with him. But before "The Nomad" gets home he'll have to contend with "The Entrepreneur." "The Entrepreneur" is the son of the wealthiest man in the east - a recently murdered railroad baron. He's out to avenge his father's death and take over that lucrative Railroad Empire by force, but he doesn't realize that his trusted servant has recently stricken a deal with "The Criminal" a serpentine killer who stole "The Nomad's" horse and killed "The Entreprenuer's" father. Now, these four gunmen stand facing one another with their fingers on their triggers, their fates won't be known until the gun smoke clears. 
Wiki info: 
Six Reasons Why is a 2008 film directed by The Campagna Brothers. It stars Daniel Wooster as the Nomad, a vigilante sent into the badlands by a preacher (Colm Feore). He wanders the Badlands with his horse killing every stranger he meets. Christopher Harrison plays an orphaned entrepreneur who is trying to cross the Badlands along with his indentured servant the Sherpa, played by Mads Koudal.
The film was in development during 2005 while the Campagna Brothers toured their previous film across Europe and America. It was shot in the summer of 2006, primarily around the desert town of Drumheller, Alberta. The Campagna Brothers presented the film at the 2007 Toronto International Film Festival, which brought it to the attention of Entertainment Tonight, raising the film's profile to a national level. It was at TIFF that the 'Six Reasons Why' was discovered by a distributor and the $12,000 film was sold to Thinkfilm in a quarter million dollar bidding war.
Six Reasons Why was commercially released in Canada in August 2007 both as a DVD and theatrically.
Four men stand staring one another down before a shootout. In a flashback one of the gunslingers, The Nomad, shows he shot a man in the Badlands named Milton while he is describing a vision of paradise just beyond the dunes. The Nomad loots through Milton's remains before camping for the night. That night the Nomad dreams of the preacher who sent him into the desert to protect a mysterious city, reminding him to make sure the horse is looked after. The Nomad wakes up realizing that the horse is more important to the mission than he is, and that he was never to see his home again. Rather than kill the next desert intruder, The Nomad conspires with him in faking his own death, which causes the horse to head home, tracked and followed by the Nomad. After the deal is struck, the Nomad goes to stop two more intruders entering the badlands. Now knowing his horse is actually an enemy, The Nomad takes a liking to the two strangers, The Entrepreneur and The Sherpa and chooses to stay with them. After a day of travel and a congenial dinner, they fall sleep around the fire. The Nomad again dreams of the preacher and his warnings. When the Nomad wakes up he finds his horse has vanished. Believing the two new strangers are responsible, he attacks them and ties them up for questioning. He finally realizes the culprit must have been the shady stranger from the day before.
Back at the 4-way shootout the tension is building as guns are drawn. The Entrepreneur's flashback shows him standing at a river with his father, discussing the opening of a new monorail station that is currently under construction, leading into the desert Badlands. The next morning the Entrepreneur's father is assassinated by The Criminal, who flees into the desert. That evening, The Entrepreneur and his servant, The Sherpa, are drinking at a bar when a loudmouth begins insulting the The Entrepreneur's father's memory. The Entrepreneur drunkenly beats the patron to death with his pistol. Once he and The Sherpa realize he would be arrested for the crime, they flee into the desert to chase down his father's assassin.
Once again, back at the shootout the Entrepreneur reaches for his pistol. This time, the Criminal's flashback shows he was hired to kill the Monorail Tycoon, which he does before fleeing in to the desert. He meets the Nomad, who spares his life so he can fake his own death and leave the Badlands. The Criminal agrees to a deal and consents to meet up with the Nomad in two days. Later, The Criminal spots The Nomad at a campfire with the son of his last kill. He assumes he has been betrayed and steals the horse.
Returning to the 4-way shootout, six gunshots are heard and each man falls to the ground, leaving the horse still standing. After the sun begins to set, one man stirs, gets up and follows the horse home.

