My_Outlaw_Brother
Released Year: 1951
Running time: 82
Director: Elliott Nugent
Cast: Mickey Rooney,Wanda Hendrix,Robert Preston,Robert Stack,Jose Torvay,Carlos Múzquiz,Fernando Wagner,Hilda Moreno,
Content: This medium-budget western is also known as My Brother, the Outlaw and Outlaw Brother. Mickey Rooney plays an Eastern dude who heads westward to visit his brother Robert Stack. When ranger Robert Preston informs Rooney that Stack is a wanted outlaw, the Mick refuses to believe it. But when Preston's words prove to be true, Rooney vows to bring Stack to justice himself. Based on a short story by Max Brand, My Outlaw Brother is a somewhat uncharacteristic project for Elliot Nugent, a director usually associated with comedies and romantic dramas. 
Wiki info: 
My Outlaw Brother is a 1951 American film directed by Elliott Nugent, produced by Benedict Bogeaus, and starring Mickey Rooney, Wanda Hendrix, Robert Preston and Robert Stack. Filmed in Mexico and released through Eagle-Lion Classics, the picture is based on the book South of the Rio Grande by Max Brand and is sometimes referred to as My Brother, the Outlaw.
Danny O'Moore, an Irish lad from New York, has not seen big brother Patrick for eight years. Patrick is said to now own a silver mine in Mexico and sends welcome money to his family in America.
In the town of Border City, Texas, a bandit known as "El Tigre" blows up and robs a bank. El Tigre is a dangerous killer with a large gang wanted on both sides of the border. The Mexican Secret Service who have attempted to infiltrate El Tigre's gang have had all of their operatives killed or disappeared. Their representative approaches the Texas Rangers with a plan. El Tigre's right hand man is an American, Patrick O'Moore. The Mexicans assume that if a Ranger approaches O'Moore and gets him back to America he would be willing to betray El Tigre for money and amnesty. Ranger Joe Warder is assigned to go to Mexico and bring O'Moore across the border.
On the trail, bandits attack Danny but he is saved by Joe. Discovering Danny's brother is the man he is after, Joe teams up with Danny and ride together to San Clemente, Mexico where Patrick resides. Danny discovers a woman there, Carmelita Alvarado, is loved by Patrick but wants nothing to do with him.
Danny is seized by El Tigre's men, but keeping out of Danny's view, Patrick saves him. Patrick tells the men he has no brother, but orders his men not to harm Danny and return him to the United States unharmed. Patrick later finds Danny and tells him he owes his life to El Tigre, who once saved it.
After being held captive, Danny, Joe and Carmelita flee. A friend who helps them escape is killed by El Tigre, who comes at Danny with a machete. Joe shoots him. El Tigre is revealed to be Patrick in disguise.
The Americans ride off for home, and Carmelita decides to go along with Danny.

