Only_the_Valiant
Released Year: 1950
Running time: 105
Director: Gordon M. Douglas
Cast: Gregory Peck,Barbara Payton,Ward Bond,Gig Young,Lon Chaney, Jr.,Neville Brand,Jeff Corey,Warner Anderson,Steve Brodie,Dan Riss,Terry Kilburn,Herbert Heyes,Art Baker,Michael Ansara,Nana Bryant,David Clarke,John Doucette,
Content: Originally conceived as a Gary Cooper western, Only the Valiant reached the screen with Gregory Peck in the lead. Peck plays Richard Lance, a strictly by-the-book Army captain. Though hated by his men, Lance is respected for his military know-how. This comes in very handy when Lance and a detachment of troops attempt to reach, and then hold, an unguarded Army garrison in the middle of Apache Country. Among the film's he-man contingent are Ward Bond, Gig Young, Lon Chaney Jr., Neville Brand, Jeff Corey and Steve Brodie, all delivering topnotch performances. The nominal leading lady is Barbara Payton, whose real-life tragedies were far more dramatic than any film she appeared in. Only the Valiant was based on a novel by Charles Marquis Warren. 
Wiki info: 
Only the Valiant is a 1951 western film produced by William Cagney (younger brother of James Cagney), directed by Gordon Douglas and starring Gregory Peck and Barbara Payton. The screenplay was written by Edmund H. North and Harry Brown, based on the 1943 novel of the same name by Charles Marquis Warren.
Gregory Peck, in a role he considered a low-point of his career, plays Captain Richard Lance, a by-the-book West Point graduate who is not very popular with the men under his command.
The conflict in the story arises when Captain Lance assigns a popular officer, Lieutenant Holloway, to lead a small group of men while escorting a prisoner to a nearby fort. The prisoner is Tucsos, the leader of a nearby Apache tribe, and the Apaches will stop at nothing to get him back. Lieutenant Holloway ends up dead, and the men at the fort blame Captain Lance. They believe that his decision to assign Lieutenant Holloway to the dangerous mission was a personal one (both Lance and Holloway were vying for the affection of the same woman).
Lance's standing with the soldiers at the fort only gets worse when he assembles a group of misfit cavalrymen to hold off rampaging Indians at a narrow mountain pass, which is considered to be a suicide mission.

