Saddle_the_Wind
Released Year: 1958
Running time: 84
Director: Robert Parrish
Cast: Robert Taylor,John Cassavetes,Julie London,Royal Dano,Charles McGraw,Donald Crisp,Irene Tedrow,
Content: Rod Serling's first original screenplay for the Big Screen was the psychological western Saddle the Wind. In one of his best performances, Robert Taylor plays Steve Sinclair, a world-weary gunslinger. Hoping to become a rancher, Sinclair is given a plot of land by patriarchal Dr. Deneen (Donald Crisp), on the proviso that Steve tries to curb the violent tendencies of his younger brother Tony (John Cassavetes). Unfortunately, Tony is not so easily controlled; he not only seethes with sibling rivalry, but also takes near-orgasmic delight in his gunslinging skills. Determined to prove to Steve and to his saloon-girl paramour Joan Blake (Julie London) that his shooting prowess somehow makes him a superior being, Tony brings tragedy to all concerned. Elmer Bernstein's overemphatic musical score is ideally suited to the larger-than-life histrionics of Saddle the Wind. 
Wiki info: 
Saddle the Wind (1958) is a Western film directed by Robert Parrish, written by Rod Serling and produced by Armand Deutsch. It was filmed in Metrocolor and CinemaScope.
Retired gunslinger and former Confederate soldier Steve Sinclair (Robert Taylor) is living as a rancher in a small western community. He collaborates with the main landowner Dennis Deneen (Donald Crisp), from whom he rents the ranch, to preserve communal stability. His quiet life is disrupted by the appearance of his emotionally unstable younger brother Tony (John Cassavetes) and Tony's beautiful girlfriend Joan (Julie London). An old rival of Steve's, gunman Larry Venables (Charles McGraw), also arrives on the scene looking for Steve. Tony confronts Venables and kills him in a shootout. His success goes to his head and he gets drunk, ignoring Joan.
A new problem arises with the arrival of Clay Ellison (Royal Dano), a farmer who plans to fence off a strip of land currently grazed by cattle. Tony attempts to drive off Ellison, but Steve intervenes. Ellison appeals to Deneen, who agrees to defend Ellison's legal rights to the land. However Tony murders Ellison when he attempts to buy provisions in town. Deneen breaks his ties with the Sinclairs. Steve intends to leave the ranch, but Tony tries to take over. Steve drives him off, but Tony confronts Deneen and attempts to kill him. Both are wounded in the gunfight. Deneen's men recruit Steve to find Tony, who has fled into the hills. When Steve finds him, Tony shoots himself. Steve tells the wounded Deneen, who persuades him to stay on at the ranch with Joan.

