Hannie_Caulder
Released Year: 1971
Running time: 85
Director: Burt Kennedy
Cast: 
Content: It's hard to discern the filmmakers' true point of view on Hannie Caulder. On one hand, you've got the heavily somber story of Raquel Welch's efforts to exact vengeance on the men who raped her and killed her husband. On the other hand, you've got the leisurely-paced, lightly amusing sequences in which saddle-tramp Robert Culp tries to teach Welch how to be a gunslinger in her own right. And on the third hand (and who's got one of those?), you are offered the goofy Three-Stooges-like antics of the principle villains: Ernest Borgnine, Strother Martin and Jack Elam. This British-financed western features one-time sexpot Diana Dors as a zoftic madam and an uncredited Stephen Boyd as an ineffectual preacher. 
Wiki info: 
Hannie Caulder is a 1971 British Western film directed by Burt Kennedy and starring Raquel Welch, Robert Culp and Ernest Borgnine. The film was rewritten by Burt Kennedy who wasn't credited.
Hannie Caulder (Welch) is a frontier wife whose husband is murdered by the Clemens brothers, a trio of rather inept outlaw brothers (played by Borgnine, Strother Martin, and Jack Elam).
After a disastrous bank raid, the Clemens men rape Caulder, burn down her house, and leave her for dead. They go on a crime spree, while Caulder recruits professional bounty hunter Thomas Price (Culp) to help her seek revenge by training her to use a gun.
Christopher Lee portrays the gunsmith who builds Welch a specialized revolver for her journey ahead. Diana Dors takes on the role of a prostitute in this feature, while Stephen Boyd has a brief appearance (in an uncredited role) as a gunfighter known simply as "The Preacher". Aldo Sambrell, a Spanish actor, has a cameo as a Mexican soldier.
Flamenco guitar virtuoso Paco de Lucia makes a cameo appearance as a Mexican musician.
Roderic "Rodd" Redwing, a well known fast draw artist, was technical adviser and worked with Robert Culp in this film. Rodd Redwing suffered a heart attack on the plane returning from the filming in Spain and died shortly after landing in Los Angeles.
Despite being entirely set in the American West and Mexico the film was a British production and was filmed, as was common at the time, in Spain mostly around Almeria.

