The_Man_Who_Came_Back
Released Year: 2008
Running time: 112
Director: Glen Pitre
Cast: Eric Braeden,Billy Zane,George Kennedy,Armand Assante,Sean Young,Carol Alt,James Patrick Stuart,Ken Norton,
Content: Eric Braeden, Billy Zane, and Sean Young headline this traditional western about one man who stood tall against injustice in a time when corruption corroded the souls of once-decent men. His family slaughtered before his very eyes, plantation supervisor Reese Paxton (Braeden) is subsequently convicted of the crime by Judge Duke (Kennedy) and his sadistic son Billy (James Patrick Stuart) - the very men responsible for carrying out the diabolical deed. But the Dukes never expected that Paxton would return one fateful day to seek justice. When he does, not even the most powerful men in the county will be able to escape his undying wrath. 
Wiki info: 
The Man Who Came Back is a 2008 western film directed by Glen Pitre. It stars Eric Braeden, Billy Zane, George Kennedy, and Armand Assante.
The Man Who Came Back is based on the Thibodaux massacre, the second bloodiest labor strike in U.S. history.
Following the American Civil War, recently freed slaves on a Louisiana plantation are worked relentlessly but paid minimum wages. Sometimes paid only in scrip, worthless money accepted only at the plantation's overpriced store, the workers become financially in debt. This creates an inescapable situation for these free men looking to gain real freedom.
In an attempt to better their lives, the workers strike. This leads to massive retaliation by the most powerful men in the town, including the sheriff (Armand Assante), the preacher (Al Hayter), power-hungry Billy Duke (James Patrick Stuart) and his vigilante group of thugs.
White overseer Reese Paxton (Eric Braeden) steps up to demand justice for his workers. Duke's rage turns on Paxton and his family. Despite assistance from a Yankee attorney (Billy Zane), Paxton is convicted by Billy's father, the corrupt Judge Duke (George Kennedy).
After being sent to prison, beaten within inches of his life, and having endured merciless emotional torture, Paxton "comes back" to seek revenge.

