The_Way_West
Released Year: 1967
Running time: 122
Director: Andrew V. McLaglen
Cast: Kirk Douglas,Robert Mitchum,Richard Widmark,Lola Albright,Jack Elam,Michael Witney,Sally Field,Stubby Kaye,Katherine Justice,Michael McGreevey,Connie Sawyer,Harry Carey, Jr.,Paul Lukather,Eve McVeagh,
Content: Senator William J. Tadlock (Kirk Douglas) enlists the help of veteran scout Dick Summers (Robert Mitchum) to lead a wagon train of settlers from Missouri to Oregon in this plodding, routine western. A scared settler accidently shoots an Indian boy who is mistaken for a wolf, prompting Summers to order newlywed triggerman Johnny Mack (Michael Witney) to be hanged to avoid an Indian attack.  Sally Field appears in her first big-screen role as the slatternly Mercy McBee. 
Wiki info: 
The Way West is a 1967 American epic western film based on the novel by A. B. Guthrie, Jr.. The film stars Kirk Douglas, Robert Mitchum, and Richard Widmark, and features Sally Field in her first major film role. The film was directed by veteran television director Andrew V. McLaglen and featured on-location cinematography by William H. Clothier. Though reviews were mixed, critics such as Roger Ebert praised the film for its realistic portrayal of settlers and their motivations.
U.S. Senator William Tadlock is leaving his home in Missouri in 1843, heading west on the Oregon Trail by wagon train. His son and slave come along, with Dick Summers as a hired guide.
Joining them on the expedition are farmer Lije Evans, his wife Rebecca and 16-year-old son Brownie. Among others there are also the newlyweds Johnnie and Amanda Mack, plus the Fairman and McBee families.
Shy young wife Amanda isn't satisfying his needs, so Johnnie gets drunk and strays with young Mercy McBee. He also shoots at what he drunkenly thinks is a wolf and ends up killing a Sioux chief's son.
Tadlock knows that no other form of justice will do for the Indians if the wagon train is to be permitted to go on its way, so he hangs young Johnnie.
On the trail, it turns out Mercy is now pregnant as well. Brownie proposes marriage to her. Tadlock's son is killed in a stampede, causing the senator to be so distraught, he asks his slave to take a whip to his back.
Lije Evans has seen enough. The last straw comes when Tadlock fakes a smallpox scare to keep soldiers away from the wagons. Tadlock is attacked by Evans, who takes charge of the trek.
Nearly to the end, Rebecca Evans shows the others Tadlock's grand plan, just beyond a steep ravine. They treacherously lower possessions, animals and each other down the steep grade to reach their destination. Amanda Mack, however, emotionally destroyed by the loss of Johnnie, cuts a rope and causes Tadlock to plunge to his death.
The film is notable for being the first big-budget western since 1930's widescreen John Wayne spectacle The Big Trail to show pioneers lowering a wagon train over a cliff with ropes.
This was the first time Mitchum and Douglas played major roles in the same film since Out of the Past exactly two decades before, in which Douglas had played a supporting role as a villain.
Douglas had previously filmed another A.B. Guthrie novel, The Big Sky.

