Prairie_Fever
Released Year: 2008
Running time: 0
Director: David S. Cass, Sr.
Cast: Kevin Sorbo,Lance Henriksen,Dominique Swain,Jamie Anne Allman,Jillian Armenante,Felicia Day,Lucy Lee Flippin,Robert Norsworthy,Blake Gibbons,Don Swayze,Richard Clarke Larsen,Silas Weir Mitchell,Ken Magee,Chris McKenna,E.E. Bell,
Content: A drunken gunfighter, a female outlaw, and three deeply disturbed women discover just what it takes to survive in the wild west when they're targeted by a relentless killer and a jealous husband in this western adventure starring Kevin Sorbo, Lance Henriksen, and Dominique Swain. Preston Biggs (Sorbo) used to be the law in Clearwater, but then his spirit died along with his wife. These days Preston is just another gun-toting drunk, but the new sheriff of Clearwater is about to offer him a deal: escort three women suffering from "prairie fever" back to civilization, and Preston can forget about the debt he incurred by busting up the local saloon. Lettie tried to kill her husband, Abigale proved far too fragile for prairie life, and Bible-quoting Blue just snapped one violent night out on the farm. These women simply can't function in such harsh living conditions, and as Preston leads the group across the prairie plains he happens across a desperate young woman named Olivia (Jamie Anne Allman). Olivia is desperate; she's just escaped from her vengeful partner Monte (Henriksen) and if she doesn't move fast he'll have her head. As chance would have it, Preston could use a girl like Olivia on this trip. But Monte isn't the only one searching for this coveted covered wagon, because Blue's ruthless husband is scouring the plains in search of his missing wife. When the bullets start to fly, this strange band of misfits must rely on each other to make it home alive. 
Wiki info: 
Prairie Fever is a 2008 Western directed by Stephen Bridgewater, starring Kevin Sorbo, Lance Henriksen and Dominique Swain.
Preston Biggs (Kevin Sorbo) a former sheriff of Clearwater, escorts three women suffering from prairie fever to Carson City. Lettie (Jillian Armenante) tried to kill her husband, Abigale (Dominique Swain) too fragile for prairie life, and Bible-quoting Blue (Felicia Day) just snapped on her farm, with the help of a gambler Olivia (Jamie Anne Allman).

