The_Outrage
Released Year: 1964
Running time: 96
Director: Martin Ritt
Cast: Paul Newman,Laurence Harvey,Claire Bloom,Edward G. Robinson,William Shatner,Howard Da Silva,Albert Salmi,Thomas Chalmers,Paul Fix,
Content: Derived from the classic 1951 Japanese film Rashomon, director Martin Ritt's The Outrage attempts to modernize the original story of rape and murder, transporting from medieval Japan to the American Southwest of the 1870's. The story is told within the framework of three men waiting at a railway station. A con-man (Edward G. Robinson) listens to the account of a trial held recently in the town as told by a prospector (Howard Da Silva) and a preacher (William Shatner) suffering from a crisis of faith in humanity. Three witnesses at the trial of a Mexican outlaw give conflicting testimony. Each version is shown in flashback. The outlaw, Juan Carrasco (Paul Newman), confesses that he bound the husband (Laurence Harvey), raped the wife, and killed the husband in a duel of honor. The wife (Claire Bloom) claims that the outlaw raped her, and then she stabbed her husband when he contemptuously blamed her for inviting the assault. The third witness, an old Indian (Paul Fix), declares that he found the dying husband who stated that he stabbed himself because he couldn't live with the humiliation. As the story continues to unfold, the validity of each of the stories is questioned before the truth is finally revealed. 
Wiki info: 
The Outrage (1964) is a remake of the 1950 Japanese film Rashomon, reformulated as a Western. Like the original Akira Kurosawa film, four people give contradictory accounts of a rape and murder. Ritt utilizes flashbacks to provide these contradictory accounts. Kurosawa is credited with the screenplay. It was directed by Martin Ritt and is based on stories by Ryūnosuke Akutagawa.
The Outrage stars Edward G. Robinson, Paul Newman, Laurence Harvey, Claire Bloom and William Shatner.
A con man, a preacher and a prospector meet in the late 1800s and recall the story of a recent scandalous murder. A Southern gentleman, Colonel Wakefield, died and the notorious bandit Juan Carrasco was tried, convicted and condemned.
Everyone's account on the witness stand differed dramatically. Carrasco claimed that the husband was tied up with ropes while the wife was assaulted, after which he killed the colonel in a duel. The wife contends that she was the one who killed her husband because he accused her of leading on Carrasco and causing the rape.
A third witness, an old Indian, testifies that neither account is true. He insists that the colonel used a jeweled dagger to commit suicide after the incident.
It turns out that there was a fourth witness, one with a completely new view of what actually took place, the prospector.

