All_Hat
Released Year: 2007
Running time: 91
Director: Leonard Farlinger
Cast: Luke Kirby,Stephen McHattie,Keith Carradine,Noam Jenkins,Lisa Ray,Rachael Leigh Cook,David Alpay,Ernie Hudson,Joel Keller,Graham Greene,Gary Farmer,Michelle Nolden,
Content: Luke Kirby and Keith Carradine star in director Leonard Farlinger's adaptation of author Brad Smith's laid back neo-western novel. Ray Dokes (Kirby) has just been released from prison, and now as the laconic ex-con makes his way back home he is stunned to see just how much progress has transformed the countryside of his youth. Looking to lie low for a while, Ray heads to the farm of his good friend Pete Culpepper (Keith Carradine). A garrulous farmer who's drowning in debt, Pete is a true Texas cowboy whose corn seems too stubborn to grow this season. The first order of business for Ray is to visit his old flame Etta (Lisa Ray, but things have gotten complicated since Ray was put away and making his way to the woman he loves isn't going to be nearly as easy as he had hoped. Soon after hooking up with firebrand jockey Chrissis (Rachel Leigh Cook), Ray discovers that his old nemesis Sonny Staunton (Noam Jenkins) - the wealthy heir to a thoroughbred dynasty - is currently attempting to buy up as much farmland as possible in order to start breaking ground on a luxurious new golf course. It seems that Etta is the only member of the rural community bold enough to stand up against Sonny, but when a valuable thoroughbred goes missing from Staunton Stables the desperate entrepreneur forces the sale of the area's few remaining farms. Realizing the danger of contending with such a powerful and determined man (after all, it was Sonny who got Ray locked away in the first place), Ray does his best to sideline Sonny's nefarious plan and save the remaining farmlands without making the one false move that could land him back in jail. 
Wiki info: 
All Hat is a 2007 Canadian western comedy film directed by Leonard Farlinger, written by Brad Smith (who also wrote the novel of the same name), and starring Luke Kirby, Keith Carradine, Noam Jenkins, and Lisa Ray.
Ray Dokes (Luke Kirby), is fresh out of prison. Returning home, he discovers the countryside of his youth transformed. Urban development crawls across the pastoral fields like a rash. Determined to stay out of trouble, Ray heads to the farm of his old friend Pete (Keith Carradine), a Texan cowboy, whose debts are growing faster than his corn.
Sonny Stanton (Noam Jenkins), the heir to a thoroughbred dynasty, is buying the entire concession of farmland to build a golf course. One of the farms he’s after belongs to Etta Parr (Lisa Ray), Ray’s old flame. Seems she’s the only one brave enough to stand in Sonny’s way
Ray hooks up with Chrissie Nugent (Rachael Leigh Cook), a kick-ass jockey and tries to steer clear of Sonny. When a million-dollar thoroughbred goes missing from the Stanton Stables, Sonny gets desperate and forces the sale of the community’s remaining farms. Ray reacts by coming up with a scheme to stop Sonny once and for all. One false move will land Ray back in jail.

