Avenging_Angel
Released Year: 2007
Running time: 81
Director: David S. Cass, Sr.
Cast: Kevin Sorbo,Nick Chinlund,Cynthia Watros,Richard Lee Jackson,Wings Hauser,Joey King,
Content: A man of the cloth takes up arms to avenge the violent murder of his wife and child in this made for television western starring Kevin Sorbo, Wings Hauser, and Cynthia Watros. Preacher (Sorbo) has just watched helplessly as his wife and child are brutally gunned down by ruthless land baron Colonel Cusack (Hauser) and his murderous henchmen. Later, when the holy man-turned-bounty hunter runs into head thug Quinn (Nick Chinlund), he rents a room from a lonely single mother (Watros) and methodically sets about plotting his revenge. 
Wiki info: 
Avenging Angel is a television film that originally aired on Hallmark Channel on July 7, 2007, as part of the network's "Rough 'N' Ready Roundup" for the July 4th holiday. It was filmed at Sable Ranch in Santa Clarita, California as well as Vasquez Rocks Natural Area Park in Agua Dulce, California.
A preacher (Kevin Sorbo) witnesses his family and a group of refugees seeking shelter in his church murdered by a gang of ruthless outlaws led by Colonel Cusack (Wings Hauser). After his wife makes him promise to never seek revenge, he instead becomes a bounty hunter. When he steps in to defend a woman in a saloon, the bad guy and his two friends (who happen to be allied with The Colonel), give him a beating and toss him into the street.
A woman with a "past", named Maggie (Cynthia Watros), takes him in to care for him. He stays in her extra room, but she insists he give up his gun while at her home because she has a daughter.
The local sheriff, on Cusacks's payroll, is meanwhile trying to run off some squatters. The Sheriff's gang attempts to intimidate the squatters, but once The Preacher learns of the Sheriff's and The Colonel's dealings, he visits the squatters, who tell him they paid for the land but never got the deed. A few days later the Sheriff's posse burns down a few of the squatter's tents.
The Preacher attempts to negotiate peacefully with the Sheriff, and so visits Cusack. Cusack tries to persuade The Preacher to join his mob, which he refuses. The Sheriff then sends a message to The Preacher by having some of his men rough up Maggie. Unarmed still because of his agreement with Maggie, The Preacher catches the gang in the act and overcomes one of the men's guns, scaring the men off.
The Preacher gets his gun back from Maggie and sets out to visit the Squatters again, and is met by the Sheriff and some of his gang. The Preacher, now armed, tells the Sheriff that the squatters have a right to stay. Gunfire ensues, and The Preacher shoots the sheriff. The rest of the bad guys run off.
The Preacher then pays a visit to Cusack for a final showdown, and obtains the deed for the squatters. As he turns to leave, having satisfied his purpose for the visit, the Colonel tries to shoot him, but The Preacher is faster and kills Cusack. The Preacher returns to Maggie and her daughter.

