The Missing Lynx (Spanish: El Lince Perdido) is a 2008 Spanish-British computer-animated action comedy film produced by Spanish studios Kandor Graphics, YaYa! Films and Antonio Banderas. The film is directed by Raul Garcia and Manuel Sicilia, and written by them and Jose E. Machuca.
Félix, a clumsy and unlucky Iberian lynx, is is transported to the animal recovery center at the Doñana National Park, after one of his countless mishaps. When he arrive, however, the national park had undergone security measures while Felix was gone. Previously, mysterious animal kidnappings occurred throughout national parks, which had caused Felix's national park to be turned into a prison-like structure. In the dead of night, the center is attacked by mercenaries led by Newmann, the self-titled "greatest hunter in the world", hired by an eccentric millionaire, Noé (Noah in the English version), who intends to create a sort of Noah's Ark for threatened species, starting with Lincesa (Lynxette in the English version). Assisted by his friends - Gus, a paranoid chameleon; Beeea (Beeety in the English version), a daredevil goat; Astarté, a brave falcon; and Rupert, a poor-sighted mole - Félix (Felix in the English version) attempt to foil Noé's plans. They avoid Newmann's forces as they guide themselves to Noah's ship. There, Newmann, having just forced Noah to give him control of the ship, attempts to kill Felix, but unexpected events leads to the ship sinking, with Newmann seemingly dying. Afterwards, Felix and Lincesa have a baby. The film ends as Felix comes upon two people who argue about something before taking Felix to the refuge.
In a post-credits scene, it is shown that Newmann actually survived his encounter at the ship, but now has a fear of cats.
All of the movie takes place in the natural parks of Andalusia. The film was developed using IBM's servers.
The Missing Lynx received mixed reviews from internet audience polls. As of February 2013, it holds an average rating of 5.4 out of 10 in Internet Movie Database. 45 percent of moviegoers on Rotton Tomatoes enjoyed the film. 
The film's score was composed by Sergio de la Puente. The soundtrack also contains Not My Day, performed by Yuri Mendez and Space Between Bodies, performed by the Spanish rock band, We Are Balboa.
As co-helmed by Manuel Sicilia and Raul Garcia, this CG-animated, Spanish-language children's adventure (translated as The Missing Lynx: Paws on the Run for its release in English-speaking countries) originated via the production efforts of Antonio Banderas, though his is not one of the voices on display. The premise concerns a millionaire who becomes obsessed with the idea of constructing a new Noah's Ark - and hires a hunter to kidnap untoward numbers of animals to make this happen. The film follows the animals amid their valiant attempt to escape from the hunter's clutches, foil his nefarious plans, and free their captured friends. ~ Nathan Southern, RoviSee All The Missing Lynx Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 100&nbsp;mins
