Dr. Seuss' The Lorax is a 2012 American computer-animated 3D musical comedy film based on Dr. Seuss' children's book of the same name. It was produced by Illumination Entertainment and was released by Universal Pictures on March 2, 2012, the 108th birthday of Seuss.
It is the second adaptation of the book, the first one being the 1972 animated musical television special. It builds on the book by expanding the story of Ted, the previously unnamed boy who visits the Once-ler. The main cast includes Zac Efron as Ted, Danny DeVito as the Lorax, and Ed Helms as the Once-ler. New characters introduced in the film are Audrey, who is voiced by Taylor Swift, Aloysius O'Hare, voiced by Rob Riggle, and Grammy Norma, voiced by Betty White.
Theodore "Ted" Wiggins is an idealistic 12-year-old boy, who lives in "Thneedville", a walled city that, aside from its citizens, is completely artificial—everything there is made of plastic, metal, or synthetics. Ted sets out to find a real tree in order to impress Audrey, who Ted has a crush on. His energetic grandmother suggests he speak with the Once-ler about this. According to the tale Ted's grandmother mentions, the Once-ler will tell anyone about trees if brought fifteen cents, a nail, and a shell of great-great-great grandfather snail. When Ted sets off outside of Thneedville in search of the Once-ler with these items, he discovers that the outside world is a contaminated, empty wasteland. The Once-ler agrees to tell Ted about the trees if he listens to the story over multiple visits. Ted agrees, even after the mayor of Thneedville, Aloysius O'Hare, who is also the greedy proprietor of a bottled oxygen company, confronts the boy and pressures him to stay in town. Over the course of the film, Ted continues to sneak out of O'Hare's sight with the encouragement of his grandmother and learns more of the history of the trees.
Over Ted's various visits, the Once-ler recounts the story of how he departed his family to make his fortune. After stumbling upon a lush Truffula Tree forest, Once-ler meets the guardian of the forest, the Lorax, after cutting down a Truffula Tree. The Lorax urges Once-ler to leave the forest, but Once-ler refuses. Eventually, the Once-ler promises not to chop another tree down, and the two seem to begin a friendship of sorts. Then, the young businessman's Thneed invention becomes a major success and Once-ler's family arrives to participate in the business. At first keeping his promise, the Once-ler continues Thneed production by harvesting the Truffula Tree tufts in a sustainable manner. However, soon his greedy and lazy relatives convince him to resume chopping down the trees, due to how long harvesting the tufts takes. Over time, the Once-ler's deforestation spirals into a mass overproduction. Flush with wealth, the Once-ler rationalises his short-sighted needs into arrogant self-righteousness, and the Lorax's helpless protests do not stop him. The Once-ler pollutes the sky, river and landscape, until the last Truffula Tree falls. Finally, the Once-ler is distraught, with the region uninhabitable because of his business's pollution. He is left ruined and abandoned by his own family and becomes a recluse. The Lorax sends the animals away to search for a better place to live before departing himself into the sky, leaving only a stonecut word: "Unless".
At the end of the story, the Once-ler understands the meaning behind the Lorax's last message, and gives Ted the last Truffula seed in hopes that he can plant it and make others care about real trees once more. Ted's desire to impress Audrey is now a personal mission to remind his town of the importance of nature. O'Hare, determined not to have trees undercut his business, takes heavy-handed steps such as covering Audrey's nature paintings, closing off the door that Ted uses to see the Once-ler, and forcibly searching Ted's room for the seed. Ted enlists his family and Audrey to help plant the seed, which has begun to germinate after coming into contact with water. O'Hare and his employees pursue the dissidents until they manage to elude him and reach the town center. Unfortunately, their attempt to plant the seed is interrupted by O'Hare, who rallies the population to stop them. To convince them otherwise, Ted takes an earthmover and rams down a section of the city wall to reveal the environmental destruction outside. Horrified at the sight and inspired by Ted's conviction, the crowd defies O'Hare, with his own henchmen expelling him from the town. The seed is finally planted, and Audrey kisses Ted on the cheek. Time passes and the land starts to recover; the trees grow, the animals return, and the redeemed Once-ler is happily reunited with the Lorax.
The book and TV special both never reveal the Once-ler's face, but instead throughout the book, the Once-ler is pictured by what appear to be green limbs. But the line "...his secret strange hole in his gruvvulous glove," shows that the Once-ler may not actually have hands or arms of this color. The filmmakers used that as the basis for the Once-ler's character design. They interpreted the Once-ler as a human, and also included his green gloves and showed his face for the first time.
The film is the fourth feature film based on a book by Dr. Seuss, the second fully computer-animated Dr. Seuss adaptation (the first one is Horton Hears a Who!), and the first of them all released in 3-D. The Lorax was also Illumination's first film presented in IMAX 3D (known as "IMAX Tree-D" in publicity for the film).
A film based on the original, The Lorax, had been in preparation since July 2009 by Universal Pictures and Illumination Entertainment. In 2010, it was announced that Danny DeVito would be voicing the titular character. The trailer debuted in Australia in November 2011.
The film was directed by Chris Renaud, and co-directed by Kyle Balda. It was written by Ken Daurio and Cinco Paul, the duo who also wrote the script for Blue Sky's Horton Hears a Who!. Audrey Geisel, Seuss's wife, was the executive producer, and Chris Meledandri, who managed Horton Hears a Who! at Fox Animation, produced the film.
The film was fully produced at the French studio "Illumination Mac Guff", which was the animation department of Mac Guff which has been acquired by Illumination Entertainment in the summer of 2011.
DeVito reprised his role in five different languages, including the original English audio, and also for the Spanish, Italian, German, and Russian language dub editions.
Universal added an environmental message to the film's website after a fourth-grade class in Brookline, Massachusetts launched a successful petition through Change.org.
The film was released on March 2, 2012 in the United States and Canada and was released on July 27, 2012 in the United Kingdom.
Mazda used the likeness of The Lorax's setting and characters in an advertisement for their CX-5 SUV. This was seen by some as the complete opposite of the work's original meaning. In response, Stephanie Sperber, president of Universal partnerships and licensing, said Universal chose to partner with the Mazda CX-5 because it is "a really good choice for consumers to make who may not have the luxury or the money to buy electric or buy hybrid. It's a way to take the better environmental choice to everyone." The film has also been used to sell Seventh Generation disposable diapers. In total, Illumination Entertainment struck more than 70 different product integration deals for the film.
The film was released on DVD and Blu-ray on August 7, 2012. The Blu-ray/DVD Combo Pack also includes three new short films based on the main feature, Serenade, Wagon Ho!, and Forces of Nature.
Blockdot created a mobile puzzle game based on the film, titled Truffula Shuffula. The game was released on February 1, 2012, for Apple iOS and Android platforms.
The film received mixed reviews from critics, with criticism directed towards the film and its marketing as betraying the original message of the book. The film earned a "rotten" rating of 55% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 146 reviews and an average rating of 5.9/10, with the critical consensus saying, "Dr. Seuss' The Lorax is cute and funny enough, but the moral simplicity of the book gets lost with the zany Hollywood production values." It also has a score of 46 on Metacritic based on 30 reviews, indicating "mixed or average reviews".
New York magazine film critic David Edelstein on NPR's All Things Considered strongly objected to the movie, arguing that the Hollywood animation and writing formulas washed out the spirit of the book. "This kind of studio 3-D feature animation is all wrong for the material," he wrote. Demonstrating the poor way the book's text was used in the movie—how modern cultural styles were pasted over the text—in this excerpt from the review, Edelstein shows Audrey describing the truffula trees to Ted:
Some conservatives have criticized the film for having a strong environmentalist message. Lou Dobbs, the host of Lou Dobbs Tonight on the Fox Business Network, has criticized the film as being "insidious nonsense from Hollywood," and accused "Hollywood of trying to indoctrinate children."
The film also garnered some positive reviews, from critics such as Richard Roeper who called it a "solid piece of family entertainment". Roger Moore of the Pittsburgh Tribune called the film "a feast of bright, Seuss colors and wonderful Seuss design", and supported its environmentalist message.
The film has grossed $214,030,500 in North America, and $132,273,439 in other countries, for a worldwide total of $346,303,939.
The film topped the North American box office with $17.5 million on its opening day (Friday, March 2, 2012). During the weekend, it grossed $70.2 million, easily beating the other new nationwide release, Project X ($21 million), and all other films. This was the biggest opening for an Illumination Entertainment film, and for a feature film adaptation of a book by Dr. Seuss, as well as the second largest for an environmentalist film. It also scored the third-best debut for a film opening in March, and the eighth-best of all time for an animated film. The Lorax stayed at #1 the following weekend, dropping 45% to $38.8 million and beating all new nationwide releases, including Disney's John Carter (second place). On April 11, 2012, it became the first animated film in nearly a year to gross more than $200 million in North America, since Disney's Tangled.
All songs written and composed by John Powell.&#160;
Three mini-movies were released on the Lorax Blu-ray/DVD Combo Pack on August 7, 2012: Serenade, Wagon Ho!, and Forces of Nature.
The Once-ler arrives with his wagon and Melvin. Pipsqueak & Lou arrive shortly after. The Once-ler tells them to have no joyrides, though Pipsqueak and Lou trick him. When Once-ler goes inside his house Pipsqueak and Lou start cranking up the wagon, but Melvin won't pull the wagon because whiping the reins makes him angry. So Pipsqueak grabs a Truffula Fruit, a stick and some string, which makes Melvin pull the wagon, until Melvin goes up a steep hill, causing him to get exhausted. Lou lets go of the reins and the wagon is unhooked from Melvin, and the wagon goes downhill backwards while Pipsqueak and Lou scream in terror. Melvin hears these screams and chases the runaway wagon. Lou tries to stop the wagon by stabbing a stick in one of its wheels, but fails because when Lou stabbed the wheel he got stuck on the wheel he stabbed. He lands back on the seat besdide Pipsqueak, who hugs him happily. The wagon hits a rock and is propelled downhill, chased by Melvin, only to approach a cliff. Pipsqueak panics and holds on to the canopy, which flies off the wagon frame but is held in place by Lou. The wagon flies off the cliff, but the canopy Lou holds is used as a parachute as they calmly make their descent, landing in the same place they left, Melvin, appearing shortly after. The Once-ler comes out of the house, only to be surprised with the sight. He tells them he is surprised they listened to instructions, and when it seems like they got away with it, Lou sneezes, causing the wagon to fall apart. Melvin hides beneath his hooves and Lou and Pipsqueak curl up into a ball. The Once-ler looks annoyed and makes a small, disgruntled "Grr" sound, at which Lou and Pipsqueak run away into the trees.
The Lorax makes Pipsqueak a Honorary Lorax and team up to scare the Once-ler by using two sticks that looks like a monsters hand to freak him out. The Once-ler finds out its fake and sprays water on the Lorax, which makes his fur puff-up. When the Lorax tells Pipsqueak that he's going to turn out like him, Pipsqueak gets scared and runs away. The short ends with the Lorax telling Pipsqueak that he lost his Honorary Lorax.
Lou wants to impress a girl Barboloot, but he has some competition.
Soon after the film's release, it was reported that a sequel to the film was being considered.
Dr. Seuss' classic, environmentally themed children's book comes to the big screen in this tale of a young boy who encounters a cantankerous forest creature after venturing outside of his artificial city in search of a tree. Ted (voice of Zac Efron) lives in a town where nothing is quite as it appears; everything is plastic, including the plants. Hopelessly smitten by the beautiful Audrey (voice of Taylor Swift), who dreams of one day seeing a real tree, Ted boldly leaves the city determined to find the flora and grant her wish. Along the way, the young adventurer crosses paths with the Lorax (voice of Danny DeVIto), a diminutive, mustached defender of nature who doesn't take kindly to human intruders. The better Ted gets to know the Lorax, however, the more he learns that his newfound friend has good reason for being a bit surly. Also featuring the voices of Betty White, Ed Helms, and Rob Riggle. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Dr. Seuss' The Lorax Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 87&nbsp;mins
