Marley_&_Me:_The_Puppy_Years
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 0
Director: Michael Damian
Cast: Travis Turner,Donnelly Rhodes,Alex Zahara,Geoff Gustafson,Sydney Imbeau,Chelah Horsdal,Merrilyn Gann,Garry Chalk,Kathryn Kirkpatrick,Marie West,Keith Dallas,Grayson Russell,
Content: This side story to Marley & Me chronicles puppy years of Marley, affectionately nicknamed "the world's worst dog". Along with his pal Bodie Grogan, Marley brings chaos to a neighborhood dog contest, and outwits several of his canine companions. 
Wiki info: 
Marley & Me: The Puppy Years is a 2011 prequel film of the 2008 film Marley & Me. The film was directed by Michael Damian and written by Damian and his wife Janeen Damian. The film was first released at Wal-Mart and Sam's Club stores on August 16, 2011, followed by a wide release on January 3, 2012.
As the title suggests, the film is about Marley in his puppy years. Marley and his new owner Bodi Grogan (Travis Turner) cause trouble at the local dog contest. Unlike the original film however, Marley is given a speaking voice (voiced by Grayson Russell).
Marley is a puppy. According to some people he is "the world's worst dog" in the movie. in this film Bodi Grogan has to stay with his Grandfather, Fred Grogan because his mother, Carol is on a business trip. So Bodi stays with Marley in his grandpa's house. His Grandpa is pretty strict about chores and pushes him around a bit. One day while Bodi is on a walk with Marley (Bodi on his skateboard) Bodi meets a girl called Kaycee. They chat for a while then Kaycee tells him about a puppy championship. Kaycee, who has a pug rescue center enters 3 of her pugs in the contest so she can get money for her rescue center. She tells Bodi to enter Marley in the contest. And according to rules, one team must have 3 dogs. So Kaycee tells Bodi about Mrs. Crouch who has 2 other lab puppies. Together all 3 of them train for a course. Bodi built one for them to practice for the contest. Meanwhile, elsewhere, Hans von Weiselbeger is cruel to his 3 puppies. He put voltage collars on them&#160;! If they are not perfect he charges their collars and they get shocked. The 3 puppies were last year's puppy champions and so Hans wanted to make them even better. The day before the competition Bodi sends his pups to a day spa. But after the pups finished a man wearing the spa's uniform took them (along with an Australian dog who was part of the competion) The evil man is Henkles, Hans's helper. He locks the 4 of them away with 2 big German Shepherds who were pretending they were going to eat the pups. The pups were scared, but the shepherds say that they were messing with them. They help the pups escape by using a sort of see-saw which the the pups made. The pup would be on one side while one of the shepherds would jump onto the other so that the pups would fly away. All 4 escape and return to Bodi's home. When the pups reached it they bark and Bodi opens the door and sees that they are very dirty. He cleans all 4 of them and grandpa calls the Australian dog's owner. So that dog goes home. The next day the Championship starts. Everyone does well but in the middle Marley gets distracted. When the prizes are announced Bodi was upset because he didn't win. Initially Hans was in the first place, but thanks to Marley the day was saved. A cat snips all of Hans's dogs' collars. Then Marley takes one collar and puts it in Hans' pocket. When the pups don't obey Hans turns the collars on. So Hans gets an electric shock. His remote which controlled the collars, fell out of his pocket and the judge sees. He is hence disqualified. The new results were first place the Australian dog and secons place the pugs. Because Marley saved the day Bodi got a prize for good sportsmanship. Bodi, in the middle of the competition saw his mam and was surprised. his mom who thought Bodi was irresponsible was happy with Marley. He couldn't keep Marley, because Marley was his relative's dog. The 3 dogs who belonged to Hans were not his anymore. One family adopted 2, but the last one was going to be taken to the dog shelter to find a home. Bodi's mom said he could keep him because she believed Bodi was ready to take a dog. Thus, that dog too was happy.

