Dr._Seuss'_The_Lorax
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 87
Director: Ken Daurio
Cast: Zac Efron,Rob Riggle,Danny DeVito,Ed Helms,Taylor Swift,Betty White,Jenny Slate,Nasim Pedrad,Stephen Tobolowsky,Elmarie Wendel,Danny Cooksey,Additional voices were provided by Jack Angel, Bob Bergen, John Cygan, Debi Derryberry, Bill Farmer, Jess Harnell, Sherry Lynn, Danny Mann, Mona Marshall, Mickie McGowan, Laraine Newman, Jan Rabson, Claira Nicole Titman, and Jim Ward,
Content: Dr. Seuss' classic, environmentally themed children's book comes to the big screen in this tale of a young boy who encounters a cantankerous forest creature after venturing outside of his artificial city in search of a tree. Ted (voice of Zac Efron) lives in a town where nothing is quite as it appears; everything is plastic, including the plants. Hopelessly smitten by the beautiful Audrey (voice of Taylor Swift), who dreams of one day seeing a real tree, Ted boldly leaves the city determined to find the flora and grant her wish. Along the way, the young adventurer crosses paths with the Lorax (voice of Danny DeVIto), a diminutive, mustached defender of nature who doesn't take kindly to human intruders. The better Ted gets to know the Lorax, however, the more he learns that his newfound friend has good reason for being a bit surly. Also featuring the voices of Betty White, Ed Helms, and Rob Riggle. 
Wiki info: 
Dr. Seuss' The Lorax is a 2012 American computer-animated 3D musical comedy film based on Dr. Seuss' children's book of the same name. It was produced by Illumination Entertainment and was released by Universal Pictures on March 2, 2012, the 108th birthday of Seuss.
It is the second adaptation of the book, the first one being the 1972 animated musical television special. It builds on the book by expanding the story of Ted, the previously unnamed boy who visits the Once-ler. The main cast includes Zac Efron as Ted, Danny DeVito as the Lorax, and Ed Helms as the Once-ler. New characters introduced in the film are Audrey, who is voiced by Taylor Swift, Aloysius O'Hare, voiced by Rob Riggle, and Grammy Norma, voiced by Betty White.
Theodore "Ted" Wiggins is an idealistic 12-year-old boy, who lives in "Thneedville", a walled city that, aside from its citizens, is completely artificial—everything there is made of plastic, metal, or synthetics. Ted sets out to find a real tree in order to impress Audrey, who Ted has a crush on. His energetic grandmother suggests he speak with the Once-ler about this. According to the tale Ted's grandmother mentions, the Once-ler will tell anyone about trees if brought fifteen cents, a nail, and a shell of great-great-great grandfather snail. When Ted sets off outside of Thneedville in search of the Once-ler with these items, he discovers that the outside world is a contaminated, empty wasteland|wasteland. The Once-ler agrees to tell Ted about the trees if he listens to the story over multiple visits. Ted agrees, even after the mayor of Thneedville, Aloysius O'Hare, who is also the greedy proprietor of a bottled oxygen company, confronts the boy and pressures him to stay in town. Over the course of the film, Ted continues to sneak out of O'Hare's sight with the encouragement of his grandmother and learns more of the history of the trees.
Over Ted's various visits, the Once-ler recounts the story of how he departed his family to make his fortune. After stumbling upon a lush Truffula Tree forest, Once-ler meets the guardian of the forest, the Lorax, after cutting down a Truffula Tree. The Lorax urges Once-ler to leave the forest, but Once-ler refuses. Eventually, the Once-ler promises not to chop another tree down, and the two seem to begin a friendship of sorts. Then, the young businessman's Thneed invention becomes a major success and Once-ler's family arrives to participate in the business. At first keeping his promise, the Once-ler continues Thneed production by harvesting the Truffula Tree tufts in a sustainable manner. However, soon his greedy and lazy relatives convince him to resume chopping down the trees, due to how long harvesting the tufts takes. Over time, the Once-ler's deforestation spirals into a mass overproduction. Flush with wealth, the Once-ler rationalises his short-sighted needs into arrogant self-righteousness, and the Lorax's helpless protests do not stop him. The Once-ler pollutes the sky, river and landscape, until the last Truffula Tree falls. Finally, the Once-ler is distraught, with the region uninhabitable because of his business's pollution. He is left ruined and abandoned by his own family and becomes a recluse. The Lorax sends the animals away to search for a better place to live before departing himself into the sky, leaving only a stonecut word: "Unless".
At the end of the story, the Once-ler understands the meaning behind the Lorax's last message, and gives Ted the last Truffula seed in hopes that he can plant it and make others care about real trees once more. Ted's desire to impress Audrey is now a personal mission to remind his town of the importance of nature. O'Hare, determined not to have trees undercut his business, takes heavy-handed steps such as covering Audrey's nature paintings, closing off the door that Ted uses to see the Once-ler, and forcibly searching Ted's room for the seed. Ted enlists his family and Audrey to help plant the seed, which has begun to germinate after coming into contact with water. O'Hare and his employees pursue the dissidents until they manage to elude him and reach the town center. Unfortunately, their attempt to plant the seed is interrupted by O'Hare, who rallies the population to stop them. To convince them otherwise, Ted takes an earthmover and rams down a section of the city wall to reveal the environmental destruction outside. Horrified at the sight and inspired by Ted's conviction, the crowd defies O'Hare, with his own henchmen expelling him from the town. The seed is finally planted, and Audrey kisses Ted on the cheek. Time passes and the land starts to recover; the trees grow, the animals return, and the redeemed Once-ler is happily reunited with the Lorax.
The book and TV special both never reveal the Once-ler's face, but instead throughout the book, the Once-ler is pictured by what appear to be green limbs. But the line "...his secret strange hole in his gruvvulous glove," shows that the Once-ler may not actually have hands or arms of this color. The filmmakers used that as the basis for the Once-ler's character design. They interpreted the Once-ler as a human, and also included his green gloves and showed his face for the first time.

