Brave
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 93
Director: Mark Andrews
Cast: Kelly Macdonald,Billy Connolly,Emma Thompson,Julie Walters,Robbie Coltrane,Kevin McKidd,Craig Ferguson,Sally Kinghorn and Eilidh Fraser,Peigi Barker,Steven Cree,Steve Purcell,Callum O'Neill,Patrick Doyle,John Ratzenberger,
Content: An impetuous princess discovers that her reckless choice has put both her family and her father's kingdom in peril in this animated adventure from Pixar films. As a toddler, Merida (voice of Kelly MacDonald) saw her father, King Fergus (Billy Connolly), do battle with one of the fiercest animals in the kingdom -- a horribly scarred hulk of a bear named Mordu. Though Fergus lost his leg defending his family, Merida and her mother, Queen Elinor (Emma Thompson), managed to escape the beast before it vanished back into the forest. Years later, Merida has grown up to become not just a skilled archer, but also a beautiful princess who inspires a competition among the eligible bachelors in the land. But Merida has little interest in getting married, and the harder her mother pushes the issue, the more fiercely she resists it. When the tournament for her hand gets under way and a deep divide opens between mother and daughter, Merida makes a wish that threatens the future of both her family and the entire kingdom. Now, with only a brief window of time to set things right, Merida must summon the courage to atone for her mistake and prevent a past tragedy from destroying any hope for a peaceful future. 
Wiki info: 
Brave is a 2012 American computer-animated fantasy film produced by Pixar Animation Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures. It was written by Mark Andrews, Steve Purcell, Brenda Chapman, and Irene Mecchi, directed by Andrews and Chapman and co-directed by Purcell. The film's voice cast features Kelly Macdonald, Julie Walters, Billy Connolly, Emma Thompson, Kevin McKidd, Craig Ferguson, and Robbie Coltrane. To make the most complex visuals possible, Pixar completely rewrote their animation system for the first time in 25 years. It is the first film to use the Dolby Atmos sound format.
In the film, set in the Scottish Highlands, a skilled archer named Merida defies an age-old custom, causing chaos in her kingdom. After consulting a witch for help, Merida accidentally curses her family and is forced to undo the spell herself before it is too late. Brave premiered on June 10, 2012, at the Seattle International Film Festival, and was released in North America on June 22, 2012, to both positive reviews and box office success. The film won the Academy Award for Best Animated Film, the Golden Globe Award for Best Animated Feature Film, and the BAFTA Award for Best Animated Film.
Preceding the film is a short film entitled La Luna, directed by Enrico Casarosa.
In Scotland, King Fergus of Clan Dunbroch presents his young daughter Merida with a bow for her birthday. While practicing, Merida encounters a will-o'-the-wisp. Soon afterwards, Mor'du, a giant demon bear, attacks the family. Merida escapes along with her mother Queen Elinor while Fergus fights off the bear at the cost of his left leg. Years later, Merida has become a free-spirited 16-year-old and an older sister of identical triplets: Hamish, Harris and Hubert. Elinor informs her that she is to be betrothed to one of her father's allied clans. Reminding Merida of a legend about a prince who ruined his own kingdom, Elinor warns her that failure to marry could harm Dunbroch, but Merida is dissatisfied with the arrangement.
The clans of Macintosh, MacGuffin and Dingwall arrive with their first-born sons to compete in the Highland Games for Merida's hand. Merida announces she is eligible to compete for her own hand as the first-born of Clan Dunbroch and defeats each of her suitors in an archery contest. Later, Elinor argues with Merida about her entrance in the games, only for Merida to run off into the forest in desperation. Coming across the will-o'-the-wisps, Merida is lead to the hut of an elderly witch posing as a wood carver. After some bargaining, the witch agrees to give Merida a spell to change her mother in the form of a cake.
Merida returns to the castle and gives Elinor the cake, but much to the surprise of both of them, instead of changing her mind about the marriage, it transforms her into a large brown bear. Realizing she has made matters worse for herself, with the help of her brothers, Merida and Elinor return to the witch's now deserted cottage where they discover that the spell will be permanent unless undone before the second sunrise. The witch leaves Merida a riddle, mentioning that she must "mend the bond torn by pride." After encountering the wisps again, the two follow them to ancient ruins and encounter Mor'du, who they discover was once the prince in Elinor's legend who received a similar spell from the witch. Merida vows to her mother that she will not become a wild animal like Mor'du. Having torn a hole between herself and her mother on her family tapestry and their family bond, Merida theorizes that she can reverse the spell by repairing the tapestry.
At the castle, the clans are on the verge of war, but Merida quells their fighting and, with the encouragement of her mother, the princess states that the children should be allowed to get married in their own time to whomever they choose. Merida then sneaks into the tapestry room with Elinor, who is losing control of her human self. Fergus enters the bed chamber and is attacked by Elinor until she regains human consciousness. After Elinor races out of the castle in desperation, Fergus gives chase. With the help of her brothers, who have transformed into bear cubs by eating the cake, Merida rides after her father while sewing up the tapestry. The clan members and Fergus capture Elinor, but Merida intervenes just before Mor'du attacks. Just as Mor'du is about to kill Merida, Elinor saves her and a menhir crashes down on Mor'du, killing the monster and releasing the prince's spirit.
At the second sunrise, Merida realizes the true meaning of the witch's riddle after placing the tapestry over Elinor and she reconciles with her mother. The queen is transformed back along with the triplets, and the family is reunited. A few days later, Merida and Elinor are sewing a new tapestry together of Merida and Elinor as a bear until they are called to the docks to say goodbye to the Lords. Then they both ride on their horses and journey around Scotland making their bond stronger than before.

