A_Cat_in_Paris
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 62
Director: Alain Gagnol
Cast: Dominique Blanc,Marcia Gay Harden (English dub),Bruno Salomone,Steven Blum (English dub),Jean Benguigui,JD Blanc (English dub),Bernadette Lafont,Anjelica Huston (English dub),Oriane Zani,Lauren Weintraub (English dub),Bernard Bouillon,Matthew Modine (English dub),Jacques Ramade,Mike Pollock (English dub),Jean-Pierre Yvars,Philippe Hartmann (English dub),
Content: French animators Jean-Loup Felicioli and Alain Gagnol directed this comedy-drama in which a family discovers their house pet is living a surprising double life. Zoe (voice of Oriane Zani) is a seven-year-old girl traumatized by the death of her father, a police detective who was on the trail of Victor Costa (voice of Jean Benguigui), a powerful underworld boss. Ever since the passing of her father, Zoe has been mute, and her mother Jeanne (voice of Dominique Blanc), also a detective, has been working hard to track down Costa and the killers and bring them to justice. However, it turns out a criminal is hiding right under their noses -- while Zoe sleeps, her beloved pet cat Dino slips out of the house at night and serves as a companion and assistant to Nico (voice of Bruno Salomone), a suave burglar who has robbed some of the wealthiest and most elegant homes in Paris. One night, Zoe follows Dino as he spends the night on the town, and as she crosses paths with Nico, she finds herself in the clutches of a handful of ruthless gangsters. Une Vie De Chat (aka A Cat in Paris) received an Academy Award nomination in 2012 as Best Animated Feature. 
Wiki info: 
A Cat in Paris (Une vie de chat) is a 2010 French animated comedy film by the French animation studio Folimage, telling the story of a young Parisian girl whose cat leads her to unravel a thrilling mystery over the course of a single evening. The film was directed by Alain Gagnol and Jean-Loup Felicioli.
A Cat in Paris was first screened on October 15, 2010 at the Saint-Quentin Cine-Jeune Film Festival. It was released in French theaters on December 15, 2010. International distribution is by Films Distribution, Paris.
The film was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature. Along with Chico and Rita, it became one of two foreign-language films nominated for Best Animated Feature in one year, an Academy first that many observers considered a surprise. The film has also received a nomination for the Cesar Award for Best Animated Film in 2011.
Nico is a burglar who sneaks into buildings and steals jewels. Nico is always followed by a black cat. The following morning, the cat wakes in a house with a little girl, catches a lizard and gives it to the girl. Zoe, hearing Jeanne, her mother, calls her to come in and look at her lizards, but Jeanne is too busy on the phone to take much notice of what she is shown. At nightfall, the cat leaves and goes to find Nico. On the way the cat walks on walls and teases a dog that barks incessantly causing its owner to throw a shoe at it.
Nico gives the cat a fish-shaped bracelet, which it gives to Zoe. Her mother sees the bracelet and asks Zoe to give it to her. Before leaving, Zoe sees a picture in her mother's dossier of a man called Victor Costa. Jeanne takes the bracelet and gives it to Lucas, a colleague of hers at the police station, who asks her to see if it matches up to any of the items stolen at one the most recent burglaries in the Rue Mouffetard. Jeanne is commissioned to handle the security of a huge African statue that has been the target of M. Costa and that cost her husband his life. The statue is being moved soon and will be the last opportunity for Costa to get his hands on it.
Victor Costa has indeed been planning how to steal the statue with his minions, M. Bebe (Mr. Baby), M. Hulot, M. Grenouille (Mr. Frog), and M. Patate (Mr. Potato). When the bracelet turn ups, Lucas follows the lead to Nico's place. Claudine has been watching Zoe, but fails to notice that she has followed the cat. While following the cat, Zoe discovers that Claudine is actually a member of his gang and has been working as a nanny to gain insight into what the police are planning. The thieves discover Zoe, who hides in Nico’s house. M. Costa nearly discovers Zoe but at the last minute one of his minions calls for him to come down to the cellar, where they have discovered Nico’s cache. Zoe tries to leave but she is caught by Claudine. At the last minute Nico returns, and locks the mobsters in the cellar. Nico escapes with Zoe on his back, jumping over the roof tops with M. Costa and his gang in pursuit after breaking down the cellar door. Nico leaves Zoe near the zoo, telling her that she must follow the cat back to his place while he distracts the thieves. The gang is close by and they all follow Nico. M. Costa, however, discovers a piece of Zoe’s t-shirt in the bushes and orders M. Grenouille to follow him. The two of them come close to catching Zoe, but she reaches a pond and escapes in a boat due to the fact that neither M. Costa nor M. Grenouille can swim after her.
Lucas, who has been following the cat lead, is told by one of Jeanne's neighbors that the cat always comes out of a house nearby and goes to another, where it annoys everyone by causing her dog to bark. Lucas calls Jeanne to come to her own house because it is related to the burglaries. After she arrives, they head up to Nico’s to wait. After shaking the rest of the gang, Nico goes back to his place and finds Zoe there. As he is about to enter the house, he is arrested by Jeanne and Lucas. Claudine tells Jeanne that Nico kidnapped Zoe. Jeanne and Lucas take away Nico in their police car, and while driving to the station, Nico tells Jeanne that she made a mistake about Claudine and that Zoe is in great danger. He gets the cat to attack Lucas who is driving and uses the opportunity to grab Jeanne’s gun and take command of the situation. After stopping the car, he tells Jeanne that he is going to catch Costa and save Zoe. Jeanne begins to suspect that what Nico had told them was true, and orders Lucas to take her home. As they arrive, they see that indeed Zoe and Claudine are not there.
Claudine has taken Zoe to M. Costa’s house where they have her locked in one of the rooms. While the gang drinks champagne, Claudine applies more of her usual perfume, making everyone sick. They open a window, allowing the scent to reach Nico and the cat, who always sneezes at Claudine’s perfume. Nico follows the trail of the scent to M. Costa's house. After cutting the power, he puts on his usual night goggles, sneaks into the house, and whisks Zoe away right from under the nose of M. Patate who has been sulking because he was stuck with the child and was not able to drink champagne with the rest of the gang. At the last moment Nico’s presence is discovered and once again he escapes with Zoe over the roof tops with M. Costa in pursuit. The chase takes them up to Notre Dame de Paris. Nico leaves Zoe in one of the terraces and teases Costa to go after him. While climbing, they both reach for gargoyles and start to fall because the gargoyles cannot take the weight of each man. Costa is saved after grabbing another gargoyle, while Nico is saved by Jeanne who has just arrived at the scene.
Costa manages to trap Zoe again and jumps over to a nearby crane followed by Jeanne, Nico, and the cat. Costa manages to push the cat over the edge and Nico jumps to save it, leaving Jeanne to confront Costa by herself. Jeanne has been having waking nightmares about Costa but she rises above them and uses her personal defense training to free Zoe and disorient Costa, who falls from the crane. With the help of Nico, Jeanne tries to save Costa by grabbing him by his shirt Costa bangs his head against the crane very hard and has a hallucination that the giant statue has come to rescue him. He jumps off the crane’s hook into the hands of the imaginary statue, which suddenly vanishes, and Costa falls to his death. The rest of the gang, including Claudine, are arrested. In the excitement Zoe has started talking again.
In the final scene, it is winter, and the cat goes over to Nico’s place, but is instead let in by Jeanne at the window. It is clear that Jeanne, Zoe, and Nico are now a new family. Nico gives a gift to Jeanne, a snow globe with Notre Dame in it.

