Diary_of_a_Wimpy_Kid:_Rodrick_Rules
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 99
Director: David Bowers
Cast: Zachary Gordon,Devon Bostick,Robert Capron,Rachael Harris,Steve Zahn,Connor and Owen Fielding,Peyton List,Karan Brar,Grayson Russell,Laine MacNeil,Terence Kelly,Belita Moreno,Fran Kranz,Andrew McNee,John Shaw,Alf Humphreys,Jakob Davies,Conner Ingram,Fran Kranz,Owen Best,Jeff Kinney (The real-life author of the series),Serge Houde,
Content: Astro Boy director David Bowers helms the follow-up film to 2010's big-screen adaptation of Jeff Kinney's acclaimed Diary of a Wimpy Kid comic novels in this Fox 2000 production. As Greg Heffley (Zachary Gordon) braves his first days of seventh grade, his parents (Steve Zahn and Rachael Harris) make a noble yet ill-advised attempt to help him forge a stronger bond with his mischievous older brother, Rodrick (Devon Bostick), who takes twisted delight in tormenting his unsuspecting younger sibling at every opportunity. 
Wiki info: 
Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Rodrick Rules (known in other countries as Diary of a Wimpy Kid 2: Rodrick Rules) is a 2011 comedy film based on Jeff Kinney's book of the same name with a couple elements from The Last Straw. The film stars Zachary Gordon and Devon Bostick. Robert Capron, Rachael Harris, Steve Zahn, and Peyton List also have prominent roles. It is the second film in the Diary of a Wimpy Kid film series preceded by 2010's Diary of a Wimpy Kid and followed by 2012's Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Dog Days.
The film begins with Greg and his family attending a party at a roller rink, he reunites with his best friend Rowley and classmates Fregley and Chirag. He meets Holly Hills and then he talks about his summer. Greg's older brother Rodrick starts persuading violent teenagers to enter the rink. Their mother and father humiliate him by speaking to him on the DJ system and carrying him off the rink.
Afterwards, Mom has noticed that the boys haven't been getting along so she devises "Mom Bucks" to pay them if they spend time together. Meanwhile, Greg and Rowley try to make a funny YouTube video by Rowley lip-synching to "Tik Tok" by Kesha while wearing underwear on his head. At school, Greg sees an empty seat next to Holly, but argues over it with his nemesis, Patty Farrell. When a talent show is advertised on TV, the brothers see this as a big opportunity – Rowley suggests that he and Greg perform magic tricks, but Greg rejects the idea whilst Rodrick sees this as his band's big break.
On Sunday, the Heffley family goes to church but Greg is extremely reluctant to go inside due to the fact that he sat on a candy bar put by Manny (which made him look like he had a stain on his pants). The boys ultimately end up in a scuffle on the floor and as punishment, they are to spend a whole weekend together to bond, while their parents leave to go to Rockin' Rapids, a water park. Against his parents' orders, Rodrick hosts a party at the house, locks Greg in the basement and shows him a box full of Mom Bucks.
After playing a game of soccer during Phys Ed, Greg finds a note from Holly Hills in his locker, and he goes to the art room as appointed in the letter, only to find Chirag, who has dressed up as Holly to trick Greg in revenge for pretending he was invisible. In the hallway, Holly passes by and greets Greg as Fregley, which upsets Greg. After school, Rowley comes for a sleepover with the Heffley family, and they watch a horror movie called "The Foot", then Rodrick gives them a ride in the back of his van to find every speed bump in the town.
The boys go out for a night of fun, getting smoothies and pranking people with fake vomit. However, one prank goes too far and Coach Malone chases them into a mall. They escape by tricking him and return home laughing, only to find that their father has inadvertently come across photos of the party that Rodrick threw. The boys spend the weekend with their grandfather in his retirement home Leisure Village, where Greg encounters Holly, who is visiting her grandmother. Rodrick gets possession of the diary and reads it aloud, which wakes Greg up. Greg accidentally runs into the womens' bathroom and an angry mob of women think he is a peeping tom.
At the talent show a few nights later, Rowley's magic performance is unable to take place, as his eight-year-old assistant Scotty gets stage fright. When Rodrick goes to his band, Greg follows and watches Rodrick's band member, Bill Walter, kick him out of the band he created. Rodrick thanks their mom, sees Greg, and nods at him for letting him play. Holly meets Greg and Rowley backstage to tell him she loved their show but Patty Farrell says it was "pathetic". Rodrick and his band perform but the crowd is not impressed until they see Greg's mom dancing, and start to dance along. Greg is happy for finally having fixed the problems with his family.
Rodrick drives Greg to school, as the boys have now forgiven each other. Rodrick also gives him a tape containing that "embarrassing moment" at Leisure Towers. The boys then create a new friendship, realizing it is fun to have a brother. Later, Greg and Rowley put the video of the talent contest on YouTube and calls it "Lame Band with Crazy Mom Dancing" which becomes an instant hit. Rodrick shouts that Greg is "so dead" and the film closes.

