Cirque_du_Soleil:_Worlds_Away
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 91
Director: Andrew Adamson
Cast: 
Content: Director Andrew Adamson (Shrek, The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe teams with producer James Cameron (Titanic, Avatar) to bring the magic of Cirque du Soleil to the big screen in stunning 3D. When a young couple become separated, they must journey through the magical realms of Cirque du Soleil to find one another again. 
Wiki info: 
Cirque du Soleil: Worlds Away is a 2012 3D film directed by Andrew Adamson. The film premiered on October 20, 2012 at the Tokyo International Film Festival, and it was released theatrically in the United States on December 21, 2012. It was released in 2D and 3D. It stars Erica Linz and Igor Zaripov as the main characters and incorporates acts from the seven Cirque du Soleil shows running in Las Vegas in 2011: O, Mystère, Kà, Love, Zumanity, Viva Elvis and Criss Angel Believe. The 3D used in the film was highly admired by the critics on its Tokyo premiere. The Eels performed a song titled "Calling for Your Love" for the movie.
A young woman named Mia in a small Midwestern town goes to a traveling carnival one evening, where she is urged by a silent clown to visit the carnival's circus and see the Aerialist, the show's star attraction. She is entranced by the Aerialist, but during his act he misses a catch and falls to the ground. She rushes to help him, but then the ground beneath them gives way and they fall through into the dreamlike world of Cirque du Soleil. Separated, they travel through the different tent worlds trying to find each other, interacting with the strange and wonderful performers and performances of Cirque du Soleil. Mia and the Aerialist perform an aerial courtship for the grand finale.
This film has received mixed reviews from critics. It currently has a rating of 57% on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 30 reviews and an average score of 5.710. On Metacritic, it has a rating of 57100, indicating "mixed or average reviews", based on 14 reviews. A. O. Scott of The New York Times gave this film a score of 35, and said that "For me, Cirque du Soleil will always be associated with the movie Knocked Up, in which the characters played by Seth Rogen and Paul Rudd take in a performance of Mystère under the influence of hallucinogenic mushrooms. If such a trip is not to your taste, or if a trip to Las Vegas is not on your calendar, you might opt for the relatively inexpensive, mildly mind-blowing Cirque du Soleil: Worlds Away, a new 3-D movie directed by Andrew Adamson."
On March 12, 2013, Worlds Away was released on Blu-ray DiscDVD.

