The_Perfect_Game
Released Year: 2008
Running time: 117
Director: William Dear
Cast: Clifton Collins, Jr.,Cheech Marin,Moises Arias,Jake T. Austin,Ryan Ochoa,Carlos Padilla,Gabriel Morales,Jansen Panettiere,Carlos Gómez,Emilie de Ravin,Patricia Manterola,Louis Gossett Jr.,William May,Bruce McGill,David Koechner,Frances Fisher,Wyatt Smith,Marc Musso,Tracey Walter,Samantha Boscarino,Riley Wells,
Content: William Dear (Timerider: The Adventure of Lyle Swann) helms the period baseball drama The Perfect Game, a cinematization of real-life events that transpired in 1957. Clifton Collins Jr. stars as Cesar Faz, a 1950s baseball player who immigrated from Mexico to the U.S. with the intent of making it as a Major League player. After encountering racism and hostility that stand squarely in the way of his success, Faz high-tails it south of the border and decides instead to coach a Little League team, ultimately guiding it all the way to the Little League World Series. The film co-stars Emilie de Ravin (Lost); W. William Winokur authored the script. 
Wiki info: 
The Perfect Game is a 2009 American drama film directed by William Dear, based on the 2008 book of the same name written by W. William Winokur. The film is based on the events leading to the 1957 Little League World Series, which was won by the first team from outside the United States, the Industrial Little League of Monterrey, Mexico, who defeated the heavily favored U.S. team. Mexican pitcher Ángel Macías threw the first, and so far only, perfect game in championship game history.
Cesar Faz (Clifton Collins, Jr.) moves to Monterrey, Mexico after he is let go by the St. Louis Cardinals from his job as a clubhouse attendant. There he meets local children being led by Padre Esteban (Cheech Marin) enjoying baseball; he takes pitcher Ángel Macías (Jake T. Austin), under his wing and brags about his own pitching skills and how he used to coach the Cardinals. Ángel convinces Cesar to help recruit and coach Monterrey's first-ever Little League team. With Cesar's skills and Padre Esteban's support, the boys hone themselves into a competitive team worthy of international competition.
When the team arrives in the United States, they are met with racism, a language barrier, and visa troubles. Though the underdogs, the team scores a series of victories that endear them to the media, and new fans. They befriend a sports reporter, Frankie (Emilie de Ravin), and the groundskeeper, Cool Papa Bell (Louis Gossett, Jr.), who then assist the boys in reaching the final game.

