Norwegian_Ninja
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 80
Director: Thomas Cappelen Malling
Cast: Mads Ousdal,Jon Øigarden,Trond-Viggo Torgersen,Linn Stokke,Amund Maarud,Martinus Grimstad Olsen,Øyvind Venstad Kjeksrud,Henrik Horge,
Content: Recent Norwegian history and one of the nation's most notorious scandals are given a playfully surreal spin in this satiric comedy from filmmaker Thomas Cappelen Malling. Arne Treholt was a celebrated Norwegian diplomat who in 1984 found himself disgraced when he was accused of selling state secrets to the highest bidder. Treholt was found guilty and spent eight years behind bars before he was pardoned and freed. Treholt has always insisted he was innocent of all charges, and in Kommandor Treholt & Ninjatroppen, Malling imagines a scenario in which Treholt (played by Mads Ousdal) is a ninja warrior with powers of invisibility who leads a secret fighting force protecting their homeland against Cold War foes, represented by the sinister Meyer (Jon Oigarden), whose sympathies are clearly with the United States. As Treholt and Meyer wage a private war for control of Norway's hearts and minds, Treholt tries to turn slobby slacker Humla (Amund Maarud) into a suitable second-in-command. Norwegian Ninja received its American premiere at the American Film Institute's 2010 AFI Fest. 
Wiki info: 
Norwegian Ninja (Norwegian: Kommandør Treholt & ninjatroppen) is a 2010 Norwegian action comedy film, directed by Thomas Cappelen Malling. The film, based on a 2006 book, presents real-life espionage-convicted Arne Treholt as the leader of a ninja group saving Norway during the Cold War and stars Mads Ousdal as Treholt.
The film is loosely based on the story of Norwegian politician and diplomat Arne Treholt, who in 1985 was convicted of high treason and espionage on behalf of the Soviet Union and Iraq. In 2006, Thomas Cappelen Malling wrote the book Ninjateknikk II. Usynlighet i strid 1978 ("Ninja Technique II: Invisibility in combat 1978"). The book was presented as a military manual written by Treholt in 1978. It achieved a certain cult status, and was considered a success at 5,000 units sold.
The story, set during the Cold War, involves the conflict between the Norwegian ninjas, King Olav V's secret army tasked to maintain Norway's independence, and a clandestine stay-behind group who carry out false flag operations that get blamed on Communists.

