Cimarron is a 1960 western film based on the Edna Ferber novel Cimarron, featuring Glenn Ford and Maria Schell. It was directed by Anthony Mann, known for his westerns and film noirs.
Ferber's novel was previously adapted in 1931; that version won three Academy Awards.
Cimarron was the first of three epics (the others being El Cid and The Fall of the Roman Empire) Mann directed. Despite high production costs and an experienced cast of western veterans, stage actors, and future stars, the film was released with little fanfare.
The 1950s brought renewed interest in Edna Ferber's works. Show Boat, which had already been filmed in 1929 and 1936, was adapted in a highly successful film in 1951. So Big, which had previously been filmed in 1932, and Giant followed in 1953 and 1956, respectively. In 1960, MGM and Warner Bros. competed to film Ferber novels, Warner producing Ice Palace from a later novel, and MGM remaking Cimarron. These marked the end of the Ferber adaptations, at least until 2008.
The remake of Cimarron saw many changes from both the novel and especially the 1931 film of the same name. With the Civil Rights Movement gaining momentum, the script, written by Arnold Schulman, took a kinder approach to Native Americans. Schulman gave the people more dignity and recognized that they were losing land that was rightfully theirs through the 1893 land rush that was the film's centerpiece. He also introduced several minor characters, such as journalist Sam Pegler (Robert Keith) and Wes Jennings (Vic Morrow), a prominent member of the Cherokee Kid's (Russ Tamblyn) gang.
In Anne Baxter's memoir, Intermission, it was implied Ford and Schell were very close during filming but had fallen out by the time of the Oklahoma premiere in late 1960, for "ugly private reasons", and were not on speaking terms.
The movie lost $3,618,000 at the box office.
In 1961 the film was nominated for Best Art Direction (George W. Davis, Addison Hehr, Henry Grace, Hugh Hunt, and Otto Siegel) and Best Sound (Franklin Milton), but failed to win either. While the 1931 adaptation is arguably the better and more successful of the two, the 1960 remake receives more attention and is still broadcast on television.
The Oklahoma land rush of 1889 provides the starting point for this western drama, based on a novel by Edna Ferber. Yancey Cravat (Glenn Ford) is an impulsive, short-fused cowboy who has married an immigrant woman, Sabra (Maria Schell). Together, Yancey and Sabra claim a homestead, and Yancey starts a newspaper. While he doesn't have much of a head for business, Sabra does, and when she takes greater control of the paper, it grows into a profitable and influential journal. Eventually, Yancey becomes a well-recognized figure, and it's suggested that he run for public office. However, Yancey finds himself unable to support legislation that would steal more land and mineral rights away from the Native Americans who first settled the land. Cimarron was previously filmed in 1931; this version reduced the role of stereotyped black characters and has Native American actors playing the "Indians," including Eddie and Dawn Little Sky. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All Cimarron Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 147&nbsp;mins
