Return to Lonesome Dove, written by John Wilder, is a TV Miniseries involving characters created in the Pulitzer Prize-winning western novel Lonesome Dove. The story focuses on a retired Texas Ranger and his adventures driving mustangs from Texas to Montana. Many fans of the Lonesome Dove Series of novels do not consider this Miniseries to be legitimate because it was not written by Larry McMurtry and its production seems to have been motivated by the success of the Lonesome Dove miniseries.
It was nominated for an Emmy Award. It chronologically follows Dead Man's Walk, Comanche Moon and Lonesome Dove. Return to Lonesome Dove is part of an alternate timeline that does not include Streets of Laredo. In this new timeline, it is followed by the TV show Lonesome Dove: The Series and Lonesome Dove: The Outlaw Years.
Captain Woodrow F. Call (Jon Voight), having just buried his friend Augustus McCrae near Lonesome Dove in Texas, plans to return to his ranch in Montana. In order to make the trip profitable he decides to take a herd of wild Mustangs and drive them north with the help of Gideon Walker (William Petersen) and Isom Pickett (Louis Gossett Jr.).
Call sends word to Newt Dobbs (Rick Schroder) that he intends to meet him at the home of Clara Allen (Barbara Hershey) but Newt becomes involved in a bar fight that concludes with the death of two local men. Newt is to be hanged for the incident before he is rescued by a neighbor, Gregor Dunnigan (Oliver Reed). Newt is paroled into his custody and develops a close relationship with Gregor's young wife, Ferris Dunnigan (Reese Witherspoon).
Call captures an outlaw named Cherokee Jack Jackson (Dennis Haysbert) and barely escapes with his life after Jack's gang rescues him. After his return to Montana, Call is upset to find Newt working for Dunnigan but Newt is determined to repay his debt to Call's neighbor. Newt becomes disillusioned with Dunnigan because of his campaign to drive the other ranchers of the region out of business.
The first of a number of sequels to the highly successful western mini-series Lonesome Dove featured few of the same actors as the original, nor was it based on a novel by Larry McMurtry. In this outing, onetime Texas Ranger Call (Jon Voight, replacing Tommy Lee Jones) heads a group of cowboys leading horses from Texas north to Montana. Along the way, Call again meets Clara Allen (Barbara Hershey, taking over for Anjelica Huston), the love of his late partner McCrae's life. ~ Jason Ankeny, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 300&nbsp;mins
