Lonely are the Brave is a 1962 film adaptation of the Edward Abbey novel The Brave Cowboy. It stars Kirk Douglas as cowboy Jack Burns, Gena Rowlands as his best friend's wife, and Walter Matthau as a sheriff who sympathises with Burns but must do his job and chase him down. It also featured an early score by legendary composer Jerry Goldsmith. Douglas felt that this was his favorite movie.
John W. "Jack" Burns (Kirk Douglas) works as a roaming ranch hand much as the cowboys of the old West did, refusing to join modern society. He rejects much of modern technology, not even carrying any identification such as a driver's license or draft card. He can't provide an address because he just sleeps wherever he finds a place.
As Burns crosses a highway into town, his horse Whiskey has a difficult time crossing the road, confused and scared by the traffic. They enter town to visit Jerry (Gena Rowlands). She is the wife of an old friend, Paul Bondi (Michael Kane), who has been jailed for giving aid to illegal immigrants. Jack explains his dislike for a society that restricts a man on where he can or can't go, what he can or can't do.
After a violent barroom fight against a one-armed man in which he chooses to use only one arm himself, Burns is arrested. When the police decide to let him go, he deliberately punches a cop to get himself arrested. He is immediately sentenced to a year in jail, which allows him to see Bondi, with a purpose of helping him escape. The town is a sleepy border town and the cops are mostly bored, occasionally dealing with minor offenses. The Sheriff has to compel them to pay attention to their duties at times. During the course of the story, the seemingly unrelated progress of a tractor-trailer truck carrying toilets, driven by Carroll O'Connor, is intercut with the principal events.
Joining Bondi in jail, Burns tries to persuade him to escape. He tells Bondi he couldn't spend a year in jail because he'd probably kill someone. Burns defends Bondi from the attention of sadistic Deputy Sheriff Gutierrez (George Kennedy), and the deputy picks Burns as his next target. During the night they saw through one of the jail's bars using two hacksaw blades Burns hid in his boot. The deputy summons Burns from his cell in the middle of the night and beats him. Upon returning to his cell, Burns tries to persuade Bondi to join him in escaping, but Bondi has a family and too much at stake to become a fugitive from the law, so he refuses to go. Burns breaks out by himself and returns to Bondi's house where he picks up his horse and some food from Bondi's wife. After the jail break, the Sheriff learns that Burns served in the military during the Korean War, including 7 months in a disciplinary training center for striking a superior officer. He also received a Purple Heart and a Distinguished Service Cross with oak leaf clusters for his valor during battle.
Burns heads for the mountains on horseback with the goal of crossing the border into Mexico. The police mount an extensive search, with Sheriff Johnson (Walter Matthau) and his Deptuty Sheriff Harry (William Schallert ) following him in a jeep. A military helicopter is brought in to help find Burns. When the air crew locates Burns, they relay his location to the Sheriff and attempt to bring Burns in. Whisky is repeatedly spooked by the helicopter and other modern noises. Burns shoots the tail rotor of the aircraft, damaging it and causing the pilot to lose control and crash land.
Deputy Gutierrez also chases Burns. He sees Burn's horse and thinks he has Burns fixed in place. He is preparing to shoot him when Burns sneaks up on him and disarms him, knocking him unconscious with the his rifle butt. Burns leads his horse up impossibly difficult, steep, rocky slopes to escape his pursuers, but the lawmen keep on his trail, forcing him to keep moving. Surrounded on three sides by lawmen closing in, his horse refuses at first to climb a steep slope. They finally surmount the crest of the Sandia Mountains and escape into the east side of the mountains, a broad stand of heavy timber, with the lawmen, including Deputy Gutierrez, shooting at him. The Sheriff acknowledges that Burns has evaded their attempts to capture him. Burns is shot through the ankle during his dash to the timber.
Burns appears to have escaped the law and his trackers late at night when he tries to cross Highway 66 in Tijeras Canyon during a heavy rainstorm. His horse is spooked, confused by noise of the traffic and blinded by the lights. The truck driver hauling the load of toilets, his vision obscured by rain, strikes Burns and his horse as they are attempting to cross the road. The sheriff arrives and, asked if Burns is the man he has been looking for, says he can't identify him, because he's never seen the man he is looking for up close. Whisky, who is seriously wounded, is killed by Harry with a gunshot. The Sheriff and his deputy Harry head home; Burns is transported from the scene in an ambulance. The movie closes with a shot of Burn's cowboy hat swamped by rain in the middle of the highway.
In the film, the river of traffic—Highway 66 by name—serves as bookends. Early in the yarn, Burns crossed the highway horseback, with difficulty, to enter the town. Saddled up in Old West tradition, entering a modern town, the rider crossed a dangerous boundary—a Rubicon of sorts—that says “There’s no going back, no escape.” In the ending, still horseback, he tries to cross that highway again.
Lonely Are the Brave was made after star Kirk Douglas read Edward Abbey's novel Brave Cowboy and insisted that Universal film it as a vehicle for him to star in.
It happens to be a point of view I love. This is what attracted me to the story&#160;– the difficulty of being an individual today.
Douglas assembled the cast and crew through his production company, Joel Productions, recruiting ex-blacklisted writer Dalton Trumbo, who had written Spartacus several years before, to write the screenplay.
The movie was filmed in the area in and around Albuquerque, New Mexico: the Sandia Mountains, the Manzano Mountains, the Tijeras Canyon, and Kirtland Air Force Base.
The working title for the film was "The Last Hero," but the release title of the film was a matter of contention between Douglas, who wanted to call it "The Brave Cowboy" after the novel, and the studio. Douglas wanted the film to open in art houses and build an audience, but Universal chose to market the film as a Western, titling it "Lonely Are the Brave" and opening it widely without any particular support. Despite this, the film has a cult following, and is often listed as one of the best Westerns ever made.
Lonely Are the Brave premiered in Houston, Texas on 24 May 1962.
The score to Lonely Are the Brave was composed and conducted by Jerry Goldsmith. Goldsmith's involvement in the picture was the result of a recommendation by veteran composer Alfred Newman who had been impressed with Goldsmith’s score on the television show Thriller and took it upon himself to recommend Goldsmith to the head of Universal Pictures’ music department, despite having never met him.
Kirk Douglas was nominated for a 1963 BAFTA Award as "Best Foreign Actor" for his work in Lonely Are the Brave, and placed third in the Laurel Awards for "Top Action Performance". The Motion Picture Sound Editors, USA gave the film a "Golden Reel Award" for "Best Sound Editing", in a tie with Mutiny on the Bounty.
Although it never quite escapes the pitfalls of pretension, this film was Kirk Douglas's bid for the affections of the art house crowd, and it remains one of his best efforts. The star plays unreconstructed "rugged individual" Jack Burns, who rides throughout the modern west knocking down man-made fences. Visiting his equally rebellious friend Paul Bondi (Michael Kane), Burns deliberately gets himself thrown in jail to be nearer his pal. Frustrated that Bondi doesn't want to join Burns on the road, Burns breaks out of jail, thereby becoming a fugitive. His trail is dogged by Sheriff Johnson (Walter Matthau), a frustrated frontiersman who secretly admires the freewheeling Burns. Meanwhile, a truck driver (Carroll O'Connor) is ominously driving down the highway with a truckload of toilets. If you think there's supposed to be some symbolism in this seemingly peripheral character, you're absolutely right. Bill Raisch, a genuine amputee who played the one-armed man on TV's The Fugitive, is Douglas' surly opponent in the café brawl sequence. Filmed on location in New Mexico, Lonely are the Brave was adapted by Dalton Trumbo from Edward Abbey's novel Brave Cowboy. ~ Hal Erickson, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 108&nbsp;mins
