Evil Roy Slade is a 1972 made-for-television spoof-Western comedy film about the "meanest villain in the West".
Orphaned and left in the desert as an infant, Evil Roy Slade (John Astin) grew up alone—save for his teddy bear—and mean. As an adult, he is notorious for being the "meanest villain in the West", so he's thrown for quite a loop when he falls for sweet schoolteacher Betsy Potter (Pamela Austin). Nelson L. Stool (Mickey Rooney), a railroad tycoon, along with his dimwitted nephew Clifford (Henry Gibson), attempts to get revenge on Evil Roy Slade for repeatedly robbing him, and sets out to hire legendary retired singing-sheriff Marshal Bing Bell (Dick Shawn) to bring Slade to justice.
Although it was a 1970s made-for-TV movie, many baby boomers consider the flick a cult classic. Quotes of "He's a born showman", "A dead neighbor and all six apples", and "Your ruby red lips taste like prairie dust" are embedded in the minds of those that love the film. Its rapid-paced style of humor can also be seen in many later films, most notably Airplane!.
Evil Roy Slade was released on DVD in January, 2008.

Overlooked when it first aired February 18, 1972, the made-for-TV Evil Roy Slade has gained a loyal and protective cult following in the past 20 years. The film was the second pilot for a never-sold TV western spoof created by Garry Marshall and Jerry Belson, Sheriff Who?. Actually, it was the second and third pilot, since Evil Roy Slade has been cobbled together from two hour-long films. John Astin is terrific in the title role, playing an outlaw so repulsive that, when he was orphaned and left stranded in the desert as a baby, even the wolves didn't want him! As an adult, Evil Roy Slade can't resist "going the extra mile" in his nastiness: while robbing a bank, he stops to pilfer a fountain pen chained to one of the desks, and the next shot shows Slade riding off into the sunset, dragging the desk behind him. Attempting to reform for the sake of pretty schoolmarm Betsy Potter (Pamela Austin), Slade simply cannot curb his crooked tendencies, so it's up to Dick Shawn as singing Sheriff Bing Bell ("Will somebody please answer that door?") to bring the criminal to justice. Shawn previously appeared in the original 1967 Sheriff Who? pilot as the "fastest interior decorator in the West"; in both films, he's almost unbearably funny. The MarshallBelson script is full of hilarious running gags and throwaway jokes. Our favorite bit concerns railroad magnate Mickey Rooney's legendary stubby index finger: "They still sing about it around campfires at night," claims Rooney--and indeed, they do. The supporting cast includes such never-fail laughgetters as Milton Berle, Henry Gibson, Dom DeLuise and Edie Adams; also, keep a lookout for John Ritter and Penny Marshall in unbilled bits. ~ Hal Erickson, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 97&nbsp;mins
