The Legend of the Lone Ranger is a 1981 American western film directed by William A. Fraker and starring Klinton Spilsbury, Michael Horse and Christopher Lloyd.
It is based on the story of The Lone Ranger, a Western character created by George W. Trendle and Fran Striker. Its producers outraged fans by not allowing actor Clayton Moore to wear the character's mask when making public appearances, and created a further bad buzz when the dialogue of leading man Klinton Spilsbury was dubbed by another actor. The film was a huge box-office failure.
The outlaw Butch Cavendish (Christopher Lloyd) ambushes a party of Texas Rangers, killing all except John Reid (Klinton Spilsbury) who is rescued by his old childhood Comanche friend, Tonto (Michael Horse). When he recovers from his wounds, he dedicates his life to fighting the crime that Cavendish represents. To this end, John becomes the great masked western hero, The Lone Ranger. With the help of Tonto, the pair go to rescue President Grant (Jason Robards) when Cavendish takes him hostage.
Many attempts had been made to create a Lone Ranger movie that would appeal to a modern audience, including making Tonto an equal partner and mentor to the Lone Ranger. In the movie, Tonto teaches the hero how to shoot and is mainly responsible for training Silver, the hero's horse. Moreover, Tonto speaks whole sentences, while in the radio and TV series he had quite a limited vocabulary. In another change to established canon, Reid is (at first) not an actual Texas Ranger but a civilian observer (and younger brother of the Rangers' captain) who survives Cavendish's massacre.
This film was shot in New Mexico, Utah, and California. Two of the movie's four screenwriters, Ivan Goff and Ben Roberts, previously created the hit TV series Charlie's Angels; they also worked together on another hit series, Mannix. According to Larry McMurtry, novelist George MacDonald Fraser had written an excellent script for the film though is not credited in the finished film.
The movie's ballad-narration, The Man In The Mask, was performed by country music legend Merle Haggard, and composed by Dean Pitchford of Footloose and Sing fame.
Klinton Spilsbury's dialogue was overdubbed for the entire movie by actor James Keach.
In 1978 Jack Wrather and Bonita Granville gained the legal rights to the Lone Ranger character and were planning a feature film with a younger actor. In 1979, Wrather obtained an injunction to stop Clayton Moore from appearing as the character at county fairs, much to fans' displeasure. Wrather anticipated making a new film version of the story, and did not want the value of the character being undercut by Moore's appearances. Also, Wrather did not want to encourage the belief that the 65-year-old Moore would be playing the role in the new picture. This move proved to be a public relations disaster. Moore responded by changing his costume slightly and replacing the mask with similar-looking wraparound sunglasses, and by counter-suing Wrather. He eventually won the suit and was able to resume his appearances in costume, which he continued to do until shortly before his death in 1999.
These events were later satirized in the episode "Who Was That Mashed Man" of the TV sitcom Night Court, where a case comes through the courtroom involving: an elderly man who played the "Red Ranger," a famous cowboy of yesteryear that was popular with children; and the producers of a movie that is a modernized remake of the character...turning him into a swearing, womanizing modern action hero. Both parties are clashing over the elderly man appearing in public as his old persona.
In the short-lived series Once a Hero, Adam West appeared in the fourth episode "Things Get Ugly" as an actor unable to escape the stereotyping of having played a comic book hero on television (Captain Justice) and earns a living by making public appearances as that character. In this episode, a new movie version of the character is coming out, and the studio files a lawsuit against Adam West's character to prevent him making any further appearances, echoing Moore's situation exactly.
Humorist Russell Baker satirized the producers' legal action against Clayton Moore in his newspaper column. The piece, titled "Bye Bye Silver Bullets," had the Lone Ranger in a swank attorney's office being forced to hand over Silver, his mask, and his silver bullets.
The film was released to massive publicity in 1981 and did poorly, losing $11 million.
A novelization of the movie was released in 1981, written by Gary McCarthy and published by Ballantine Books (ISBN 0345294386).
A line of action figures created by the toy company Gabriel in 1982 which included Buffalo Bill Cody, Butch Cavendish, George Custer, The Lone Ranger and Tonto. Also released by Gabriel were the horses Silver (The Lone Ranger's Horse), Scout (Tonto's Horse) and Smoke (Butch's Horse).
An orphan grows up to become an Old West legend as the story of the Lone Ranger comes to the big screen in this western saga featuring Christopher Lloyd and Jason Robards. Orphaned as a young boy, John Reid struck up a lifelong friendship with a loyal Indian boy named Tonto. Years later, Reid has become a lawyer and returned to the west in order to ensure that vicious murderers such as the Cavendish gang are brought to justice. Having previously murdered Reid's parents, the Cavendish gang proves that they still rule this lawless land when they launch an ambush that leaves the lawyer serious wounded and his Texas Ranger brother dead. Nursed back to health by his old friend Tonto, Reid dons a mask and sets out to pursue justice anonymously atop his faithful horse Silver. His timing couldn't be better, either, because the Cavendish gang is about to carry out their most ambitious misdeed to date by kidnapping President Ulysses S. Grant (Robards). Upon learning that the president has been abducted by the most violent gang in the Wild West, the Lone Ranger sets out to settle an old score while rescuing the man who will steer the fate of a nation. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 98&nbsp;mins
