Love Finds a Home is a Christian drama film, the eighth and final installment based on a series of books by Janette Oke. It aired on Hallmark Channel on September 5, 2009. The film is based on the book Love Finds a Home by Janette Oke. Sarah Jones, Haylie Duff and Jordan Bridges reprise their roles from Love Takes Wing.
The film is the eighth in the "Love Comes Softly" series of television movies on Hallmark Channel that includes Love Comes Softly (2003), Love's Enduring Promise (2004), Love's Long Journey (2005), Love's Abiding Joy (2006), Love's Unending Legacy (2007), Love's Unfolding Dream (2007), and Love Takes Wing (2009), as well as two 2011 prequels; Love Begins and Love's Everlasting Courage, which are not based on any novels.
A pregnant Dr. Annie Watson (Haylie Duff) is going to stay with her best friend, Dr. Belinda Owens (Sarah Jones) while her husband Peter is off on a surveying job. Annie's mother-in-law Mary (Patty Duke), a seen-it-all midwife whose homeopathic remedies and folksy wisdom are at odds with Belinda’s scientific knowledge, comes along. As Belinda deals with the headaches Mary is causing, she must also address issues at home. While her adopted daughter Lillian (Courtney Halverson) discovers the joys and pains of first love, Belinda and her husband Lee (Jordan Bridges) find their own relationship suffering over Belinda’s inability to get pregnant. Just as the town learned to put its faith in Belinda as their doctor, Belinda must learn to accept that the best guidance for her own problems may come from unlikely sources. Annie gives birth to a daughter, Melinda (Lindy), and the movie ends with Mary hopping into a buggy to leave and Belinda whispering something in her ear. When her husband asks what she said, the answer is: "Oh, I just told her that I'll need a midwife soon."
The love saga winds to a close as Belinda (Sarah Jones) takes on a new responsibility while accepting guidance from the place she least expected it. Female doctors are a rarity in the old west, but Belinda has carved out an impressive niche for herself in a small, tight-knit Missouri community. Her best friend Annie (Haylie Diff) is about to give birth, and Belinda has agreed to monitor her as she carries the baby to term. But for a woman who has always put science first, Annie's folksy mother-in-law Mary (Patty Duke) isn't always the easiest person to deal with. Experienced nurse maid Mary would rather rely on homeopathic treatments that taking the advice of doctors, and before long the two women are hopelessly at odds over how to handle the pregnancy. Back at home, things aren't any easier; Belinda is having trouble getting pregnant, and it's beginning to have a negative affect on her relationship with her husband (Jordan Bridges). Perhaps if Belinda can finally open up and realize that the solution to her problems isn't always what she thought it would be, she can find a healthy balance between her career and her home life. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviComplete Cast of Love Finds a HomeSarah Jones - Dr. Belinda OwensJordan Bridges - Lee OwensHaylie Duff - Dr. Annie NelsonDirector(s):David S. Cass, Sr.Writer(s):Donald DavenportProducer(s):Kyle A. Clark,&nbsp;Stephen NiverCategories:WesternsLooking for special editions of Love Finds a Home?See All Versions
