Army_of_Crime
Released Year: 2009
Running time: 138
Director: Robert Guédiguian
Cast: Virginie Ledoyen,Simon Abkarian,Robinson Stevenin,Jean-Pierre Darroussin,Lola Naymark,Ariane Ascaride,Gregoire Leprince-Ringuet,Yann Tregouët,Ivan Franek,Olga Legrand,Boris Bergman,Patrick Bonnel,Adrien Jolivet,Gerard Meylan,Horaţiu Mălăele,Lucas Belvaux,
Content: A daring band of rebels takes on Nazi forces in Europe in this wartime drama from director Robert Guediguian. Born in Armenia, Missak Manouchian (Simon Abkarian) had settled in France by the time World War II broke out; a Socialist who stood in fierce opposition to the Axis forces occupying his country, he and a handful of other leftists formed the FTP-MOI, a faction of the French Resistance comprised of immigrants who came to France before the war. Working beside Manouchian was his wife, Melinee (Virginie Ledoyen), a poet-turned-underground fighter; Marcel (Robinson Stevenin), a Jewish volunteer who is an excellent shot with a rifle; and Thomas (Gregoire Leprince-Ringuet), a passionate Marxist with a skill for making bombs. Along with several other activists, the FTP-MOI wage a propaganda campaign against the Nazis while targeting selected Axis leaders for execution. But despite their cunning and talent, Manouchian and his partners find it difficult to keep their work a secret, and in time they're found out by a ruthless detective (Jean-Pierre Darroussin) with the Vichy police. L'Armee du Crime (aka The Army of Crime) was based on the true story of a French resistance group dubbed "the Army of Crime" in Vichy propaganda pieces. 
Wiki info: 
The Army of Crime (French: L'Armee du crime) is a 2009 French drama-war film directed by Robert Guediguian and based on a story by Serge Le Peron, one of three credited for the screenplay. It received a wide release in France on 16 September 2009 and opened in the United States in 2010.
The film deals with the events of the Affiche Rouge ("red poster") affair. The title was taken from the caption on a propaganda poster, in which the Nazis sought to present prominent resistance fighters as foreign criminals. The caption read "Liberators? Liberation by the army of crime".
In Paris during the German occupation, an ill-assorted group of resistance fighters commits disorganized attacks. Missak Manouchian, an Armenian exile, is ready to help but is reluctant to kill; for him, being ready to die but not to kill is an ethical matter. However, circumstances lead him to abandon his reluctance. Under his leadership, the group structures and plans its actions and thus the Manouchian network is born. The film traces the story of this group, from its shaping to the execution of its members in 1944.

