Captain_Newman,_M.D.
Released Year: 1963
Running time: 127
Director: David Miller
Cast: Gregory Peck,Tony Curtis,Angie Dickinson,Eddie Albert,Bobby Darin,Robert Duvall,Bethel Leslie,James Gregory,Dick Sargent,Larry Storch,Jane Withers,Vito Scotti,
Content: Gregory Peck plays a benevolent God-like figure in a white smock as Captain Josiah Newman, the head of a psych-unit at a Southwestern army base during the waning days of World War II. Newman is a patriarchal protector to his patients, preferring to keep him in his ward, rather than return them to certain death on the battlefield. The matriarchal figure of the ward is Lieutenant Grace Blodgett (Jane Withers), but Newman is more interested in his assistant Lieutenant Francie Corum (Angie Dickinson), with whom he is having an affair. Further help is provided by human nature expert, Corp. Jackson Laibowitz (Tony Curtis), the orderly. And Newman needs all the help he can get. Particularly with three patients: Colonel Bliss (Eddie Albert) is suffering from a guilt complex from all the men he has sent to death; Corporal Tompkins (Bobby Darin, in an Academy Award-nominated performance), although decorated for bravery in combat, calls himself a coward for failing to save his pal from a burning plane; and Captain Winston (Robert Duvall) is guilt-ridden and has lapsed into catatonia because he had hidden for over a year in the basement of a building in Germany. Although Newman wants to cure these men of their psychological problems, he doesn't want to see them returned to the war to be killed. 
Wiki info: 
Captain Newman, M.D. is a 1963 film starring Gregory Peck, Tony Curtis, Angie Dickinson, Robert Duvall, Eddie Albert and Bobby Darin. It was directed by David Miller and filmed on location at Fort Huachuca, Arizona.
The movie is based on the 1963 novel by Leo Rosten. It was loosely based on the World War II experiences of Rosten's close friend Ralph Greenson M.D., while Greenson was a Captain in the Army Medical Corps supporting the U.S. Army Air Forces and stationed at Yuma Army Airfield in Yuma, Arizona. Greenson is well known for his work on "empathy" and was one of the first in his field to seriously associate Post Traumatic Stress Disorder with wartime experiences. He was a director of the Los Angeles Psychoanalytic Institute and was a practicing Freudian. Greenson is perhaps best known for his patients, who included Marilyn Monroe, Frank Sinatra, Tony Curtis and Vivien Leigh.
Major filming took place at the U.S. Army's Fort Huachuca complex in southern Arizona, with the collocated Libby Army Airfield used to portray the fictional Colfax Army Air Field.
Captain Josiah Newman runs the neuro-psychiatric ward of a military hospital located at the fictional Colfax Army Air Field in the Arizona desert in 1944. He often uses unconventional means and people to match, including his new orderly, Corporal Jackson Leibowitz.
Among the patients in their ward is the suicidal Colonel Bliss, a highly decorated combat pilot and commander who eventually climbs atop the air base's water tower and jumps to his death, and a battle-scarred corporal named Tompkins who reveals under the spell of sodium pentothal the source of his distress. Newman also assists in the marital love life of Captain Winston while enjoying a flirtation or two with his own chief nurse, Lieutenant Corum.

