Tunnel_Rats
Released Year: 2008
Running time: 96
Director: Uwe Boll
Cast: 
Content: Notorious director Uwe Boll takes a break from beating his critics to turn out this deadly serious war film centering on the battlefield experiences of a U.S. combat unit sent to root out and kill Viet Cong soldiers who have been stealthily attacking American troops via an elaborate series of underground tunnels deep beneath the jungles of Vietnam. 
Wiki info: 
1968 Tunnel Rats (originally titled Tunnel Rats) is a 2008 war film directed by Uwe Boll. The film is based on the factual duties of tunnel rats during the Vietnam War. Unlike his most well known films, 1968 Tunnel Rats is not based on a video game but does have a video game based on it. Also, in a documentary for the film, Boll revealed the movie doesn't have a script, instead the actors are improvising their lines.
Though a box office failure, the film received positive reviews and is generally regarded as Boll's best film.
A group of elite US Army soldiers, trained in underground warfare, arrive at base camp in the jungle of Vietnam. The soldiers spend the first day and night getting to know each other. The next morning they begin to explore the Viet Cong's underground tunnel network at Củ Chi. Armed with nothing more than bayonets, pistols (in this case, the then-standard issued Colt 1911), grenades and flashlights, the US soldiers take to the tunnels, where they begin to encounter dangers including primitive but lethal boobytraps (punji sticks, grenades rigged with tripwire, etc.) and roving Viet Cong. Meanwhile on the surface the Viet Cong also attack the base. As things escalate above and below the ground, soldiers for both sides are pushed to the limits of their humanity. In the end, everyone in the movie is killed by either the Viet Cong or U.S soldiers, or by a climatic U.S. airstrike which hits the base camp by accident, killing all the survivors of the battle.
1968 Tunnel Rats was a box-office failure, earning less than $36,000 in ticket sales, despite the film's small budget of $8 million.
Despite this, 1968 Tunnel Rats received generally positive reviews from critics, making it Uwe Boll's most critically successful film to date. Jeffrey M. Anderson of Combustible Celluloid gave the film 34 stars and wrote "If Boll had made this film in 1986, he might have won an Oscar and become the next Oliver Stone!" Bill Gibron of Filmcritic.com gave the film 3.55 stars, calling it "very good -- and that's amazing, considering who's receiving said accolade."
On the negative side, Uwe Boll won the Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Director for his work on the film, which he also received for directing In the Name of the King and Postal.
Uwe Boll also released a video game based on the movie. The title was developed by Replay Studios using the Replay engine.

