The_Dawns_Here_Are_Quiet
Released Year: 1972
Running time: 157
Director: Stanislav Rostotsky
Cast: Yelena Drapeko,Yekaterina Markova,Olga Ostroumova,Irina Shevchuk,Irina Dolganova,Andrei Martynov,Lyudmila Zajtseva,Alla Meshcheryakova,
Content: It is a little-known fact that during World War II a small number of Soviet women actively served in combat. This film takes us into the lives of a small detachment of such women, and combines war action footage with gentler moments, such as when they kick their (male) sergeant out of the barracks for complaining that they don't wear enough clothes there. The story of their combat is interspersed with their memories of their husbands and civilian lives. The main combat sequence places them in conflict with a German patrol which was trying for a surprise attack on Russian positions. This film was nominated for an Oscar as "Best Foreign Film" in 1972. 
Wiki info: 
The Dawns Here Are Quiet (Russian: А зори здесь тихие, translit.&#160;A zori zdes tikhie) is a 1972 Soviet film directed by Stanislav Rostotsky based on Boris Vasilyev's novel of the same name. The film was nominated for an Oscar in the Best Foreign Language Film category.
The film is set in Karelia (near Finland) in 1942 during World War II and was filmed near Ruskeala. Senior Sergeant Vaskov is stationed with a group of young female anti-aircraft gunners in a railway station far from the front line. Vaskov is not used to these gunners' active, playful personalities and therefore clashes with them over daily issues. But Vaskov, being the only man in the village, has to accommodate them in many cases.
One day, two German paratroopers appear in the forest nearby. Thinking that they may sabotage military facilities, Vaskov and five of the women attempt to stop the Germans. They pick a perfect defense position, only to find that there are sixteen paratroopers instead of two. Though outgunned and outnumbered, Vaskov decides to hold the Germans for as long as possible. He also sends a soldier back for reinforcements. However, she drowns in the swamp. Vaskov and the remaining four fight the Germans. All four women are killed in action. Vaskov is also seriously wounded and finds the drowned soldier's clothes near the swamp. The desperate Vaskov, armed only with knife, one-rounded Nagant and deactivated hand-grenade, attacks the cabin where the Germans are resting. The Germans are totally surprised and are either killed or captured. Meanwhile, reinforcements find Vaskov before he passes out.
Twenty years after the war ends, Vaskov visits the place again with the adopted son of one of the women.

