Rebel
Released Year: 1985
Running time: 93
Director: Michael Jenkins
Cast: Prabhas,Tamanna,Deeksha Seth,Krishnam Raju,Vikram Singh,Brahmanandam,Prabha,M. S. Narayana,Kovai Sarala,Ali,Mukesh Rishi,Pradeep Rawat,Jeeva,Supreet,K.C.Shankar,
Content: This WW II musical is set in Australia and chronicles the exploits of a nightclub singer and the young Marine who loves her. She works in a Quonset hut turned into a saloon and helps stage shows for battle-weary troops returning from the South Seas. After one performance she holds a small party in her apartment and there meets the Marine sergeant who has just sailed in from Guadalcanal. Although she is married and awaiting the return of her husband, who is also at war, he decides to pursue her. Later she learns that her husband has been killed. Soon after, the Marine confesses that he can no longer handle the violence and has gone AWOL. 
Wiki info: 
Rebel is a 2012 Telugu action film written and directed by Raghava Lawrence. The film stars Prabhas, Tamanna, Deeksha Seth and Krishnam Raju and was produced by J. Bhaghawan and J. Pulla Rao under Sri Balaji Cine Media banner. Apart from directing, Raghava Lawrence also handled the choreography, screenplay and music direction for the film. The film was released worldwide on September 28, 2012.
Rishi (Prabhas) is a happy-go-lucky guy who is the son of Bhupathi (Krishnam Raju). Rishi is influenced by his father's ideals and grows just like his father. But Bhupathi doesn't want his son to follow the violence and make more enemies. He sends his son to Bangalore for his higher studies and learn music. There Rishi falls for Deepali (Deeksha Seth), an orphan and brings her to his house in the disguise of his old music teacher as he wants his father to be happy that he doesn't take up the violence. During the festivals held in their village, the truth is revealed in the fight between the thugs sent by Simhadri (Pradeep Rawat) to kill Bhupathi and Rishi saves his father by eliminating all the thugs. Simhadri, on the other hand, joins hands with Bhupathi's brother (Mukesh Rishi) and kills Bhupathi and Deepali in a temple.
Rishi sets to avenge his family and is assisted by Raju (Supreet), who had assisted Bhupathi. He finds that there is another person named Stephen (K. C. Shankar) involved in the disaster along with his father's brother (now changed to Robert). Rishi now sets a trap to find the whereabouts of Stephen and Robert, who are ruling the underworld,using their assistant Nanu. For that, he makes Nandini (Tamanna), daughter of Nanu, to fall for him. In the end he kills the goons and unites with Nandini.

