As_Far_as_My_Feet_Will_Carry_Me
Released Year: 2001
Running time: 122
Director: Hardy Martins
Cast: 
Content: The true story of a German soldier's long and difficult journey home after being sentenced to a Russian prison camp inspired this wartime epic. In 1944, Clemens Forell (Bernhard Bettermann) leaves behind his wife and children and joins the German army, where he is sent to fight along the Russian front. After a year in the trenches, Forell is captured by Soviet forces and is sentenced to spend 25 years at hard labor, mining lead. Predictably enough, the mine proves to be a dangerous and dispiriting environment, and after three years Forell decides he can stand no more and blocks out an escape plan. Forell makes his break during the dead of winter, and while he's at first discovered by a group of hunters who intend to turn him back in, a band of Eskimos come to his rescue. Forell throws in his lot with them, eventually falling in love with the lovely granddaughter (Irina Pantayeva) of the Eskimo chieftain. After a few seasons with the Eskimos, Forell resumes his journey back home, narrowly escaping capture in Siberia and finding an unexpected ally as he tries to cross into Iran. So Weit Die Fuesse Tragen was adapted from a best-selling German novel based on an actual incident; the novel was also the basis for a popular German television series of the late '50s. 
Wiki info: 
As Far as My Feet Will Carry Me (German: So weit die Fuße tragen) is a 2001 film about German World War II prisoner of war Clemens Forell's escape from a Siberian Gulag in Soviet Union back to Germany. It is based on the book of the same name written by Bavarian novellist Josef Martin Bauer. The book is in turn based on the story of Cornelius Rost who used the alias "Clemens Forell" to avoid retribution from the KGB.
Clemens Forell is a German soldier whose unit is captured by the Soviets. Forell is sent to a far northeast labor camp, run by a cruel Lieutenant Kamenev, in the Soviet Union. After an unsuccessful attempt to escape, he ultimately does escape with the aid of the camp doctor, Dr. Stauffer, who had planned to escape himself but is terminally ill with cancer. Forell heads north to avoid the guards, who would expect him to go south. When the supplies given to him by Dr. Stauffer run out, he successfully kills a seal. Over the winter, he wanders across northern Siberia, until he meets Anastas and Semyon, two gold prospectors. Although initially suspicious of them, Forell eventually joins them. After Semyon falls in a river and Forell rescues him, Semyon kills Anastas when he suspects him of stealing his gold. Semyon and Forell then continue their journey. When Semyon can no longer continue, Forell offers to carry his pack for him, but a suspicious Semyon throws him down a slope, thinking he too will try to steal his gold. Beset by wolves, Forell is rescued by nomadic Chukchi herders, one of whom, named Irina, falls in love with him. After he makes a successful recovery, the Chukchi find out the Soviets are looking for Forell. Much to Irina's chagrin, Forell leaves, with the dog the Chukchi give him for companionship. When he runs into a logging operation, Forell is sent on the train with the freight as a brakeman. Betrayed, he is nearly captured by the Soviets, led by Kamenev. Forell manages to escape, but his dog is shot when he attacks and mauls Kamenev. Over the next year, Forell makes his way to Central Asia. A Jewish man helps him acquire a passport despite the fact that Forell is German, and Forell makes his way to the Iranian border. As he is walking to freedom, he sees Kamenev walking towards him from the Iranian side. Petrified, Forell stares at Kamenev and a showdown looms. However, Kamenev steps aside and lets Forell pass, declaring that "the victory is mine". Once on the Iranian side, Forell is believed to be a Soviet spy and taken prisoner. His uncle who works in Ankara, however, recognizes him and Forell is freed. Arriving in Germany at Christmas, Forell sees his family leave for Church. He then arrives at the church, where he is reunited with his family.
Much of the dialogue in the film takes place in languages other than German, such as Russian, Chukchi, and Persian. No subtitles are provided, deliberately so as to impart upon the audience the sense of helplessness felt by the main character, who knows very little Russian.
In a scene of Forell's meeting with the Iranian police chief in the latter's office, there are a number of mismatches between what is shown and the situation prevailing in Iran prior to 1979 revolution. The police chief is shown bearded and is wearing an olive green uniform, while the face of the Iranian military personnel used to be clean-shaven and the police uniform was dark blue at the time. In addition, a picture of Dome of the Rock was hanging on the wall, while at that time the Iranian regime was not a supporter of the Palestinian cause. On the contrary, at the time hanging a picture of the Iranian king (the Shah) was obligatory in all government offices, which is not the case in the film.

