Guns_at_Batasi
Released Year: 1964
Running time: 103
Director: John Guillermin
Cast: Richard Attenborough,Jack Hawkins,Flora Robson,John Leyton,Mia Farrow,Cecil Parker,Errol John,Graham Stark,Earl Cameron,Percy Herbert,David Lodge,Bernard Horsfall,John Meillon,Patrick Holt,Alan Browning,Richard Bidlake,Horace James,Joseph Layode,Ric Hutton,
Content: Richard Attenborough stars as a stalwart sergeant-major, stationed in British colony in Africa. When the colony declares its independence, Attenborough is assigned to keep the peace during the governmental transition. Trouble begins when an insurgent African officer (Errol John) attempts to overthrow the new, British-approved rulers. As the political situation becomes more and complex, Attenborough finds that his deeply entrenched values and beliefs are no longer valid. Based on a novel by Robert Holles, Guns at Batasi is what used to be called a "thinking man's adventure film." 
Wiki info: 
Guns at Batasi is a 1964 drama film starring Richard Attenborough, Jack Hawkins, Flora Robson, John Leyton and Mia Farrow. It is set in an overseas colonial military outpost during the last days of the British Empire in East Africa.
The film, which is based on the 1962 novel The Siege of Battersea by Robert Holles, was directed by John Guillermin and filmed at Pinewood Studios despite being set in Africa.
A group of veteran British sergeants, headed by an ultra-correct, order-barking Regimental Sergeant Major, are caught between two dissident factions in an unnamed newly-created African state (most likely Kenya, since the character of RSM Lauderdale mentions that the Turkana people live in the north, which is where they live in Kenya. The African soldiers also speak amongst themselves in Kiswahili, the lingua franca of the region). The story neatly exposes the feelings of the professional NCOs, their officers and the African soldiers and officers, who are still painfully new to both guns and political slogans. When the post-colonial government of the unnamed African country is overthrown by a populist uprising, troops loyal to the new administration take over the barracks, arrest the commanding officer and seize weapons. With the British NCOs cut off in the Sergeants' mess during the mutiny, the action boils down to the initiative and confusion of the griping, duty-hardened British soldiers in defending Captain Abraham (a wounded African officer), and themselves, against their former allies. The mess situation is further complicated by having to temporarily accommodate a female British MP and a UN secretary, the latter providing some love interest.
Eventually the minor action comes to anti-climactic end when the country's new administration allows the senior British officers to return to the barracks at Batasi and end the siege, but not before the RSM and a private involve themselves in some 'action'. The film concludes with the news that a new government is in power. The film illustrates an erupting new world where the so-called common man, both black and white, no longer has a clear idea of the realpolik due to the social revolutions in a post-colonial world.
Richard Attenborough won a BAFTA Film Award for his performance as the R.S.M.. He is a traditional hero, albeit a boring one with an unblinking dedication to the letter of military law. In the face of attack by African troops with a Bofors gun or a showdown with the African leader of the revolt, he proves his mettle in unflinching, steely style.
Errol John, as the mutinous officer and Earl Cameron, as the African commander he arrests, are hard and relentless men who are acting on ideologies.
Percy Herbert, David Lodge, Bernard Horsfall, John Meillon and Graham Stark are tough, efficient and wise-cracking British NCOs. Jack Hawkins contributes typical British restraint as the commandant of Batasi.
John Leyton as the youthful Private Wilkes and Mia Farrow (eldest daughter of the late director John Farrow and Maureen O'Sullivan) as a United Nations secretary, lend a touch of youthful romance to the proceedings in the roles of a couple of voyagers stranded in the barracks during the clash.
Flora Robson, as a visiting Member of Parliament, provides a restrained performance as the shocked and confused politician caught up in the sudden turn of events. Robson's sympathetic portrayal balances the action with the political motivations. Her character states the film's theme precisely when she says to Attenborough's character: "I disapprove of their methods as I do of yours"; the character appears to share (at least in theory) the revolutionary objectives of the rebels while not understanding what such objectives commit the men to do.

