Roar_of_the_Press
Released Year: 1941
Running time: 69
Director: Phil Rosen
Cast: Jean Parker,Wallace Ford,Jed Prouty,Suzanne Kaaren,Harland Tucker,Evalyn Knapp,Robert Frazer,Dorothy Lee,John Holland,Maxine Leslie,Paul Fix,Betty Compson,Matty Fain,Eddie Foster,Charles King,Frank O'Connor,Dennis Moore,Robert Pittard,
Content: Ace police reporter Wally Williams (Wallace Ford) is so devoted to his job that he even neglects his new bride Alice (Jean Parker) on their honeymoon. Right now, Wally is covering a suicide which he suspects is actually a murder-a suspicion apparently corroborated by a cryptic note and a second mysterious death. Deciding that if you can't beat 'em, join 'em, Alice decides to help Wally solve the case. For a while it looks as though hero and heroine will become murder victims themselves, but they're rescued in the nick of time by Wally's Runyonesque gangster pals. The supporting cast of Roar of the Press includes three talented actresses who deserved better: Betty Compson, Evelyn Knapp, and Dorothy Lee. 
Wiki info: 
Roar of the Press is a 1941 American film directed by Phil Rosen.
Married only a few hours, small-town girl Alice makes her first visit to New York with new husband Wally Williams, a hotshot reporter for the Globe.
A body falls from a building. Williams steals the identification and calls in the story to city editor MacEwen, who makes Wally follow it up. Reporters' wives warn Alice to expect this kind of thing.
A personal ad leads Wally to a second corpse. The police read about in the Globe and angrily haul Wally in for questioning. Alice's irritation grows, as does that of reporters from other newspapers at Wally's continued scoops.
Evildoers from an anti-American organization kidnap Wally, and when he won't reveal how he gets his information, they grab Alice as well. Sparrow McGraun runs a numbers racket but likes Wally better than these foreigners, so he saves the newlyweds. A grateful Wally gives this scoop to every paper except the Globe.

