Flyboys
Released Year: 2006
Running time: 139
Director: Tony Bill
Cast: James Franco,Martin Henderson,Jean Reno,Jennifer Decker,Ruth Bradley,Abdul Salis,Philip Winchester,Tyler Labine,David Ellison,Augustin Legrand,Keith McErlean,Michael Jibson,Gunnar Winbergh,Ian Rose,Todd Boyce,Mac McDonald,Tim Pigott-Smith,Lex Shrapnel,Daniel Rigby,
Content: As World War I rages in Europe and Allied forces in France, Italy, and England find their resolve quickly diminishing due to the overwhelming force of the German juggernaut, a handful of brave American soldiers volunteer to join their French counterparts in learning to fly and fighting for freedom from above as the true story of the legendary Lafayette Escadrille comes to the screen in a breathtaking war adventure from Academy Award-winning director Tony Bill and famed producer Dean Devlin. They have come from all over the United States, ready and willing to put their lives on the line despite their country's initial pledge to not get involved with the all-consuming war that rages throughout Europe. Few could have foreseen the challenges faced by the world's first fighter pilots, however, and upon arriving at their aerodrome in France, the aspiring aviators are assigned to a new squadron under the command of war-ravaged Captain Thenault (Jean Reno) and battle-weary American pilot Reed Cassidy -- the sole survivor of his devastated former air brigade. With little encouragement from their fellow aviators and nothing to drive but their unifying goal of taking to the skies and offering up their lives in the name of freedom, the determined airmen of the Lafayette Escadrille set out to make history by embarking on the adventure of a lifetime. James Franco, Martin Henderson, and David Ellison star in a script penned by Phil Sears, Blake T. Evans, and David S. Ward. 
Wiki info: 
Flyboys is a 2006 American dramawar film set during World War I, starring James Franco, Martin Henderson, Jean Reno, Jennifer Decker, David Ellison, Abdul Salis, Philip Winchester, and Tyler Labine. It was directed by Tony Bill, a pilot and aviation enthusiast. The screenplay about men in aerial combat was written by Phil Sears, Blake T. Evans and David S. Ward with the screen story by Blake T. Evans. Themes of camaraderie, racial prejudice, revenge and love are also explored in the film.
The film follows the enlistment, training and combat experiences of a group of young Americans who volunteer to become fighter pilots in the Lafayette Escadrille, the 124th air squadron formed by the French in 1916. The squadron consisted of five French officers and 38 American volunteers who wanted to fly and fight in World War I during the main years of the conflict, 1914–1917, before the United States later joined the war against the Central Powers. The film ends with an epilogue that relates each film character to the real-life Lafayette Escadrille figure on whom the movie was based.
Prior to America's entrance into the war, a group of young Americans go to France, for different personal reasons, to fight in the French Air Service, L'Aeronautique militaire, during World War I . One of them, Blaine Rawlings (James Franco) faced with the foreclosure of his family ranch in Texas, decides to enlist after seeing a newsreel of aerial combat in France. Dilettante Briggs Lowry (Tyler Labine) joins because of his overbearing father. African-American boxer Eugene Skinner (Abdul Salis), who had been accepted as an athlete in France, was motivated to "pay back" his adopted country. These American recruits were under the command of French Captain Georges Thenault (Jean Reno), while the veteran fighter ace Reed Cassidy (Martin Henderson), a fellow American, takes over as their mentor.
During their training, each pilot struggles with the demanding flying; later, they have to face the aerial dogfights that dominate the front line missions. Rawlings meets a young woman named Lucienne whom he courts despite her hesitations about his risky profession. 
On their first mission to escort two bombers to attack a German ammunition depot, the rookie pilots are ambushed by Germans and two are killed while flying; another pilot is forced to make an emergency landing. While on the ground this American pilot is shot and killed by the German ace The Black Falcon who returns to altitude and is met by the more chivalrous German pilot Franz Wolferd who shakes his head in disapproval.
During an attack on a German Zeppelin, Reed Cassidy is mortally wounded by the Black Falcon but, as his final act, destroys the Zeppelin by crashing into it. Rawlings reunites with Lucienne before she leaves for Paris. Before Rawlings leaves for another battle, his plane is presented with an eagle, Cassidy's former insignia, and Rawlings is promoted to Commander. Their next mission is to escort four bombers which are being sent to bomb the same supply depot from the first mission. During the battle Franz Wolferd is shot down as well as a few of the American pilots, including Briggs Lowry, who shoots himself with his sidearm rather than be burned alive in his stricken plane. Nevertheless, the mission is a success and the German supply depot is bombed.
Upon returning from the bombing mission, Rawlings takes off again to exact revenge on the Black Falcon, followed soon after by the rest of the Lafayette Escadrille. A melee between Rawlings and his American pilots and the Black Falcon and his German squadron ensues. During the final battle, despite having jammed guns and being wounded, Rawlings evades his enemy and fatally shoots the Black Falcon with his pistol. The rest of the Germans either retreat or are shot down. Rawlings and three other pilots (Jensen, Skinner and Beagle) survive the encounter and return to base.

