Reunion_in_France
Released Year: 1942
Running time: 104
Director: Jules Dassin
Cast: Reginald Owen,John Carradine,Moroni Olsen,Ava Gardner shopgirl Marie (uncredited),Natalie Schafer,Henry Daniell,
Content: Better known as Reunion in France, this women's-magazine-style romantic melodrama was the first major production for director Jules Dassin -- who was promptly demoted back to the MGM "B" department when the picture tanked at the box office. Joan Crawford stars as Frenchwoman Michele de la Becque, who comes to believe that her fiance, wealthy munitions manufacturer Robert Cortot (Philip Dorn) is a Nazi collaborator. When her suspicions are apparently corroborated, Michelle falls in love with Pat Talbot (John Wayne), a downed American aviator stranded in occupied Paris. Only then does Michelle discover that she's been all wrong about Cortot -- but what to do about Talbot, who has been marked for death by the Gestapo? Ava Gardner has a tiny role as a Parisian shopgirl. 
Wiki info: 
Reunion in France (1942) is a Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer feature film starring Joan Crawford, John Wayne, and Phillip Dorn and in a story about a woman who, suspecting her well-heeled lover has Nazi connections, aids a downed American flyer. The screenplay by Jan Lustig, Marvin Borowsky and Marc Connelly was based upon an original screen story by Leslie Bush-Fekete. The film was directed by Jules Dassin and produced by Joseph L. Mankiewicz.
1940 in Paris, Michele de la Becque (Joan Crawford) is a career woman in love with industrial designer Robert Cortot (Philip Dorn). Together they enjoy a luxurious lifestyle unfazed by the approach of World War II. Michele discovers her lover is socializing with Nazi officers and his plants are manufacturing weapons for the Nazis. She confronts him and he does not deny her evidence. She is outraged. She aids a downed American in the Eagle Squadron of the Royal Air Force bomber pilot Pat Talbot (John Wayne) from Pennsylvania and finds herself falling in love with him. Later, she discovers Cortot is turning out defective weapons for the Nazis and organizing a French fighting force. Michele is happily reunited with Cortot.

