Three_Kingdoms:_Resurrection_of_the_Dragon
Released Year: 2008
Running time: 102
Director: Daniel Lee
Cast: Andy Lau,Maggie Q,Sammo Hung,Vanness Wu,Andy On,Ti Lung,Elliot Ngok,Pu Cunxin,Chen Zhihui,Damian Lau,Yu Rongguang,Ding Haifeng,Jiang Hongbo,Wang Hongtao,Menghe Wuliji,Liang Yujin,Bai Jing,Zhao Erkang,Timmy Hung,Yang Jian,Chen Guohui,Zhang Mang,Hu Jingbo,
Content: This sweeping martial arts epic - a co-production of Hong Kong and Korea - stars Asian screen idol Andy Lau as Zhao, a layman caught up in a rising tide of chaotic violence as his country is ripped in half by the blight of civil war. In desperation, Zhao draws from his inner resources and "rises up" against the evil warlord who has caught the nation under his thumb. The young warrior vows to liberate and unify the land, and leads a sizeable army to accomplish this goal. Unfortunately, while his heroism succeeds in itself, it fails to reunify the nation, but a new and peace-seeking king occupies the throne and appoints Zhao to set out once and for all and bring the warlord toppling down. 
Wiki info: 
Three Kingdoms: Resurrection of the Dragon is a 2008 film loosely based on parts of the Chinese classical novel Romance of Three Kingdoms by Luo Guanzhong. It was directed by Daniel Lee with a reported budget of US$25 million. It is a joint production between the People's Republic of China (Mainland China and Hong Kong) and South Korea.
The film publicity said that the film's script received inspiration of Chapter 92 of Romance of Three Kingdoms. Patrick Frater of Variety said that the book is often cited as one of the four most important works in the corpus of Chinese literature. The book is also frequently read in South Korea. Unlike the source material, which casts three sworn brothers as the protagonists, the film uses Zhao Zilong, played by Andy Lau, as the lead character. The film is one of the two Three Kingdoms-related films in production in 2007, with the other being John Woo's Red Cliff.
Zhao Zilong begins his career by enlisting in Liu Bei's army. He befriends a fellow soldier, Luo Ping'an, who is also from his hometown in Changshan. Not long later, Zhao participates in a battle against Liu Bei's rival Cao Cao. He follows Zhuge Liang's plan and launches a sneak attack on the enemy camp at night, achieving his first victory. Liu Bei is overwhelmed by Cao Cao and is forced to retreat to Phoenix Heights but is separated from his family during the chaos. Luo is ordered to find and bring Liu's family back safely but fails. Zhang Fei is angered and thrusts his spear towards Luo, but Zhao blocks the attack and engages Zhang and Guan Yu in a fight. Zhao remains undefeated after dueling for several rounds and Liu Bei is impressed by his skill. Zhao offers to retrieve Liu's family, and Guan Yu and Zhang Fei cover him while he breaks through enemy lines to begin the search.
Zhao rescues Liu Bei's infant son and holds off dozens of enemy soldiers alone despite being surrounded on all sides. He fights his way out and charges towards Cao Cao, who is observing the battle nearby. Cao is shocked and loses his sword to Zhao, but the latter spares his life and leaps to safety on a cliff. Cao Cao's granddaughter Cao Ying witnesses the attack. Zhao later returns to Changshan as a hero and falls in love with a girl putting on a shadow puppet show dedicated to him.
Zhao continues to fight many battles on Liu Bei's side and earns himself the title of "Invincible General" as he has never lost before. When Liu Bei later becomes emperor of Shu, Zhao is named as one of the Five Tiger Generals, along with Guan Yu, Zhang Fei, Ma Chao and Huang Zhong. After Liu Bei's death, Zhuge Liang persuades the new ruler Liu Shan to launch military campaigns against Wei to restore the Han Dynasty. By then, Zhao is already 71, and he is the sole survivor of the Five Tiger Generals. He insists on going to battle and is joined by Guan Xing and Zhang Bao and Luo Ping'an. Zhuge Liang gives him two envelopes, and tells him that he is to open the first envelope when he comes to the first fork in the road, and he is to open the second envelope when things become difficult.
Zhao's army reaches a fork in the road, opens the first envelope, and learns that Zhuge Liang orders him to split his forces into two and send each half down each fork. He splits his forces, as instructed, with one led by Zhao himself while Guan and Zhang command the other. Zhao later encounters the Wei general Han De and slays Han's four sons all by himself. However, he is lured into a trap set by the Wei commander, Cao Ying, and has to retreat to Phoenix Heights. While he is surrounded on all sides and his forces has sustained heavy casualties, he opens the second envelope and learns that his task is actually to distract the Wei army while Guan Xing and Zhang Bao proceed to capture enemy territory.
After attempts by both the Shu and Wei sides to instigate each other into battle, Zhao engages Cao Ying in a duel and defeats her but lets her go. Cao Ying's forces later advance towards Phoenix Heights and Zhao allows his subordinates to lead all his men into battle. The Shu soldiers launch a fierce assault on the Wei army and are nearly all wiped out when Han De sacrifices himself to launch a kamikaze-style attack to blow up the enemy with gunpowder.
Zhao and Luo Ping'an watch the battle and aftermath from Phoenix Heights. At the end, Luo reveals that he has been very jealous of Zhao all these years because Zhao kept rising up the ranks while Luo remained as a foot soldier. The two men make peace with each other and Luo helps Zhao remove his armour and tearfully beats the battle drum as Zhao makes a long charge towards the enemy.

