Fixed_Bayonets
Released Year: 1951
Running time: 92
Director: Samuel Fuller
Cast: Richard Basehart – Cpl. Denno,Gene Evans – Sgt. Rock,Michael O'Shea – Sgt. Lonergan,Richard Hylton – Medic John Wheeler,Skip Homeier – Whitey,David Wolfson – Bigmouth,Henry Kulky – Vogl,Craig Hill – Lieutenant Gibbs,James Dean – Doggie (uncredited),
Content: To filmmaker and war veteran Samuel Fuller, war is about survival. You either kill or be killed. His combat films are not about politics, adventure, or home. They are about killing and staying alive. Fixed Bayonets, Fuller's second study of the Korean War, focuses on a neophyte corporal, Denno (Richard Basehart), who is afraid to take a life. When his division is forced down Korea's snowbound mountains, Denno's unit stays behind to cover its retreat. Entrenched in an icy cave, Denno watches his superiors get picked off one by one until he must take command. He soon learns of what he is truly capable and what he will do to survive: Denno learns to kill. Filmed and released during the Korean War, Fixed Bayonets offered audiences no respite from the harrowing, difficult combat. It also introduced a new arena into modern American combat films -- freezing, icy terrain. The actors were so unaccustomed to the ice (that Fuller had actually frozen onto the set), that several men injured themselves within the first week of shooting. Many of the wounded in the film are simply ailing performers who Fuller kept on set so they could still receive their paychecks! 
Wiki info: 
Fixed Bayonets! (1951) is a war film written and directed by Samuel Fuller and produced by Twentieth Century-Fox during the Korean War. It is Fuller's second film about the Korean War. In his motion picture debut, James Dean appears briefly at the conclusion of the film.
The film is set in the first winter of the Korean War during the Red Chinese intervention . The story follows the fate of a lone 48 man platoon left as a rear guard to defend a choke point, to cover the withdrawal of their division over an exposed bridge. The subplot explores the psychological makeup of the individuals charged with leadership of the platoon, and therein examines the nature of service and valor. Ultimately command of the platoon falls upon Cpl. Denno (Richard Basehart), who has an innate aversion to responsibility for the lives of others.
Roy Webb composed the film's score using two songs.
Music by James F. Hanley

