5_Days_of_War
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 113
Director: Renny Harlin
Cast: Rupert Friend,Emmanuelle Chriqui,Richard Coyle,Heather Graham,Johnathon Schaech,Rade Serbedzija,Andy Garcia,Val Kilmer,Mikko Nousiainen,Mikheil Gomiashvili,Ani Imnadze,Antje Traue,Kenneth Cranham,Dean Cain,Sergo Shvedkov,Steven Robertson,Alan McKenna,Malkhaz Abuladze,Marshall Manesh,Givi Sikharulidze,Zura Tsintsqiladze,
Content: In the midst of an intense five-day war between Russia and the Georgian Republic, a rogue American journalist, his loyal cameraman, and a desperate local woman fight to reveal the truth about the atrocities being committed against innocent civilians. Andy Garcia, Val Kilmer, Rupert Friend, and Emmanuelle Chriqui star in this explosive war drama from Die Hard 2 director Renny Harlin. 
Wiki info: 
5 Days of War (also known as 5 Days of August) is a 2011 action film by Finnish director Renny Harlin. The story is about the 2008 South Ossetia war  over a Russian-backed breakaway region in Georgia, including the events leading up to the conflict.
The film was released in Georgia as 5 Days of August, and in other countries as 5 Days of War and also City on Fire.
The film starts with a brief scene in Iraq where the Georgian contingent of the coalition forces saves the life of an American reporter Thomas Anders (Rupert Friend). One year after Anders loses one of his colleagues (Heather Graham) in Iraq, he returns to Los Angeles but soon goes to Georgia on the advice of some of his friends in Tbilisi, who suspect that a large conflict is brewing. He, along with his cameraman Sebastian Ganz (Richard Coyle), delve deeper into Georgian life as conflict escalates and they get caught in the crossfire when an air raid strikes a local wedding they stumble upon. With members of the wedding party (Emmanuelle Chriqui), and the help of a Georgian soldier (Johnathon Schaech) who had earlier saved them in Iraq, their mission becomes getting their footage of an atrocity by Russian irregulars out of the country. But they find themselves faced with international apathy due to the opening of the 2008 Olympic Games. Their flight leads them to the Battle of Gori.
The film ends with a long series of testimonials from Georgian citizens who lost family members during the conflict; despite promises to the contrary, Russian forces still occupy the territory, leaving many people in Georgia displaced whose homes are either occupied or permanently destroyed.

