In_Darkness
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 143
Director: Agnieszka Holland
Cast: Robert Więckiewicz,Benno Furmann,Agnieszka Grochowska,Maria Schrader,Herbert Knaup,Kinga Preis,Krzysztof Skonieczny,Julia Kijowska,Marcin Bosak,Jerzy Walczak,Michał Żurawski,Zofia Pieczyńska,Etel Szyc,Andrzej Mastalerz,Ida Łozińska,Laura Lo Zito,Alexander Levit,Frank Kobe,
Content: A modest Polish sewer worker becomes a hero after rescuing a group of Jews from certain death during the Holocaust. Robert Wieckiewicz, Agnieszka Grochowska, and Kinga Preis star in this inspirational World War II drama from two-time Academy Award nominee Agnieszka Holland (Bittere Ernte, Europa, Europa). 
Wiki info: 
In Darkness (Polish: W ciemności) is a 2011 Polish drama film directed by Agnieszka Holland. Based on true events, the film tells a story of Leopold Socha, a sewer worker in the Nazi-occupied Polish city of Lwów (since 1945 Lviv, Ukraine), who used his knowledge of the city's sewer system to shelter a group of Jews of the Lwów Ghetto during the Shoah in occupied Poland.
Dedicated to Marek Edelman, the film was a Polish-German-Canadian coproduction, with a screenplay by Canadian writer David F. Shamoon.
In Darkness is a dramatization of a factual rescue of Jewish refugees in Nazi-occupied Lwów. For over a year, a Polish Catholic sewer maintenance worker and burglar, Leopold Socha – along with his friend and coworker Szczepek Wróblewski – hid and cared for a group of hunted Polish Jews who had escaped the massacres and deportations during the liquidation of the Lwów Ghetto, at first helping them in exchange for daily payment, but then continuing to do so long after the Jews' money had run out and aiding them had become ever more dangerous.
Historically, the Jewish ghetto had been established in 1941, and the Nazis decided to liquidate it in June 1943. The Russian army took back Lwów in July 1944, by which point Socha's small band made up approximately 10 of the less than 1000 surviving Jews in the city. Socha's and Wróblewski's actions, and those of their wives, would earn them all recognition as Righteous Among the Nations recipients.

