Carve_Her_Name_With_Pride
Released Year: 1958
Running time: 119
Director: Lewis Gilbert
Cast: Virginia McKenna,Paul Scofield,Jack Warner,Denise Grey,Alain Saury,Maurice Ronet,Anne Leon,Sydney Tafler,Avice Landone,Nicole Stephane,Noel Willman,Bill Owen,Billie Whitelaw,William Mervyn,Michael Goodliffe,Andre Maranne,Harold Lang,Michael Caine,
Content: The true story of Violette Szabo, a heroine of the Second World War for her espionage activities on behalf of the British government. Born Violette Bushell (Virginia McKenna) to a French mother and an English father, she chances to meet Etienne Szabo (Alain Saury), a French officer, whom she later marries. They have a child, Tania, but Etienne is fatally wounded in the Battle of El Alamein. Violette is already contributing to the war effort at home, but soon discovers that her bi-lingual skills make her a potentially valuable member of England's Special Operations Executive, the country's wartime overseas espionage unit. She agrees to join and, after extensive training, is sent into France in the spring of 1944, on a mission to salvage a resistance unit in Rouen area. Szabo completes that mission successfully and returns home, intending to resume her life as a mother raising her daughter -- but she is offered a second mission in France, immediately after the Normandy landings, and accepts, with tragic consequences. 
Wiki info: 
Carve Her Name with Pride is a 1958 British drama film based on the book of the same name by R.J. Minney. Set during World War II, the film is based on the true story of the heroism of Special Operations Executive agent Violette Szabo, with Virginia McKenna in the lead role.
The film includes the reading of the poem The Life That I Have, written by Leo Marks and given to Szabo as she left for a mission in Nazi-occupied France.
Violette Szabo is a young woman whose father is English and mother is French, living in London during World War II. She meets French Army officer Etienne Szabo, stationed in the city, and within three days they become engaged to be married. They have a daughter, Tania, but Etienne never sees her as he is killed fighting in North Africa; she and the daughter move into her parents' home.
Because of her linguistic skills, the widow is recruited as a spy by the British government. On her first mission, she is teamed with Captain Tony Fraser (Paul Scofield), a man she had met earlier socially and liked. She parachutes into France, and shares a train compartment to Rouen with curious Nazi soldiers. The French Resistance group Fraser had set up in Rouen has been betrayed. Their job is to contact any survivors and to blow up a major railway viaduct. One Resistance member who Szabo contacts tells her that another survivor, a garage mechanic (Andre Maranne), is suspect, but Szabo takes the risk of meeting him anyway. He informs her that only three of 98 group members remain. Nonetheless, she persuades him to try to blow up the viaduct. Szabo is picked up and questioned by the Gestapo. She is released (in the hope that she will lead the Germans to her comrades). She, however, manages to rendezvous in Paris with Fraser, who congratulates her: the viaduct was destroyed.
After their return to England, Fraser assures Szabo that she will not have to go behind enemy lines again, but due to the shortage of experienced agents, she is asked to do just that. She agrees, parachuting into France. Once again, she is under Fraser's command, this time in the Limoges region. She sets out with a guide to contact the various Resistance units to coordinate their actions. However, as they drive through a village, they see another Frenchman shooting two German soldiers passing by on motorcycles, and she and her guide become engaged in a running firefight with a German patrol. When she twists her ankle while fleeing, she remains behind to cover the guide's escape as he swims a river. She runs out of ammunition and is captured.
Though tortured, she defiantly refuses to provide any information. Eventually she is reunited with two fellow women agents she had befriended during their initial training, Lilian Rolfe and Denise Bloch, in a Nazi Paris prison. As Allied forces advance on Paris, the women are placed on a train for Germany. When the train is bombed by Allied aircraft, the women have a chance to attempt to escape, but Szabo instead fetches water for male prisoners. One of them is Fraser. An uncredited Michael Caine plays the prisoner who leans forward and calls to Szabo for water; in real life, that was the war hero F. F. E. Yeo-Thomas (as recorded by Leo Marks in Chapter 76 of his book Between Silk and Cyanide). That night, Szabo and Fraser acknowledge their love for each other.
The men and women are separated. The three women are taken to a concentration camp, where, one day, they are executed.
After the war, Tania and her grandparents go to Buckingham Palace, where the King gives her her mother's posthumous George Cross. Afterward, they meet Fraser.

