Bang_Rajan
Released Year: 2000
Running time: 118
Director: Thanit Jitnukul
Cast: Winai Kraibutr,Bin Binluerit,Jaran Ngamdee,Chumphorn Thepphithak,Bongkoj Khongmalai,Teerayut Pratchbamroon,Suntri Maila-or,
Content: This historical drama from Thailand is based on one of the key historical events in that nation's history. In 1765, Siam (as Thailand was known at that time) was being invaded by Burmese troops, and only one thing stood in the way of the Burmese army seizing control of the capitol city of Ayudhaya -- the tiny village of Bang Rajan. Despite the strength of the advancing Burmese forces, the people of Bang Rajan were determined to fight back, and Taen (Chumphorn Thepphithak) leads a band of villagers who have pledged to face down the enemy. When Taen is severely wounded in an early skirmish with the Burmese, the people of Bang Rajan are forced to turn to Chan Nhatkeo (Jaran Ngamdee), a battle-hardened soldier of fortune who lives alone in the nearby wilderness. Chan Nhateko, understanding the seriousness of the situation, brings in a handful of colleagues, and with their help the people of Bang Rajan prepare to fight the larger and better equipped Burmese army to a standstill. Bang Rajan was shot on a relatively lavish budget ($1.3 million, roughly the cost of four average Thai productions), and proved to be a blockbuster attraction at home, eventually grossing $9 million to become the biggest home-grown moneymaker in the history of the Thai film industry. 
Wiki info: 
Bang Rajan (Thai: บางระจัน) is a 2000 Thai historical drama film depicting the battles of the Siamese village of Bang Rajan against the Burmese invaders in 1767, as remembered in popular Thai culture. Cross-checking the story with the events reported by the Burmese sources indicates that the purported events at Bang Rajan are likely a merger of at least two independent events that took place in the war.
The film was directed and co-written by Thanit Jitnukul. In 2004, the film was "presented" by Oliver Stone in a limited release in US cinemas.
The Burmese army is seeking to invade Ayutthaya, the capital of Siam. Seeking to block the invasion is a small band of villagers in Bang Rajan. The forces are at first led by Nai Taen, who is injured in an early battle. The villagers then turn to an outsider, Nai Chan Nuad Kheo, a moustachioed, veteran warrior. He brings along a handful of other men, who with the remaining men and women of Bang Rajan vow to put up a fight. They use all their resources to prepare the village for a siege, including melting down all available metal farming implements into a crudely constructed cannon. Lacking horses, the village drunkard, Nai Thongmen, mounts an old water buffalo and rides the draft animal into battle.
The plot follows the Thai version of events. According to Thai tradition, the Burmese northern invasion army led by Gen. Ne Myo Thihapate was held up for five months at Bang Rachan, a small village northwest of Ayutthaya by a group of simple villagers. However, not all the points of this traditional Thai story could be true as the entire northern campaign took just over five months (mid-August 1765 to late January 1766), and the northern army was still stuck in Phitsanulok, in north-central Siam, as late as December 1765. Burmese sources do mention "petty chiefs" stalling the northern army's advance but it was early in the campaign along the Wang River in northern Siam (not near Ayutthaya) during the rainy season (August–October 1765). The Burmese general who was actually stationed near Ayutthaya was not Thihapate but rather Maha Nawrahta, whose southern army was waiting for the northern army to show up to attack the Siamese capital. It appears that the three verified events—petty chiefs resisting Thihapate in the north, Thihapate's campaign period of five months, and Maha Nawrahta staking out by Ayutthaya—have merged to create this popular mythology.

