Inglourious_Basterds
Released Year: 2009
Running time: 153
Director: Quentin Tarantino
Cast: 
Content: A group of hardened Nazi killers stalk their prey in Nazi-occupied France as a Jewish cinema owner plots to take down top-ranking SS officers during the official premiere of a high-profile German propaganda film. As far as Lt. Aldo Raine (aka Aldo the Apache," Brad Pitt) -- is concerned, the only good Nazi is a dead Nazi. Raine's mission is to strike fear into the heart of Adolf Hitler by brutally murdering as many goose-steppers as possible, or die trying. In order to accomplish that goal, Lt. Raine recruits a ruthless team of cold-blooded killers known as "The Basterds" which includes baseball-bat-wielding Bostonian Sgt. Donnie Donowitz (aka "The Bear Jew," Eli Roth) and steely psychopath Sgt. Hugo Stiglitz (Til Schweiger), among others. When the Basterds' secret rendezvous with turncoat German actress Bridget von Hammersmark (Diane Kruger) goes awry, they learn that the Nazis will be staging the French premiere of "The Nation's Pride," a rousing propaganda film based on the exploits of German hero Fredrick Zoller (Daniel Bruhl), at a modest theater owned by Jewish cinephile Shoshanna Dreyfus (Melanie Laurent), posing as a Gentile after the brutal murder of her family by the ruthless Col. Hans Landa (Christoph Waltz). As the Basterds hatch an explosive plan to take out as many Nazis as possible at the premiere, they remain completely oblivious to the fact that Shoshanna, too, longs to bring the Third Reich to its knees, and that she's willing to sacrifice her beloved theater in the process. 
Wiki info: 
Inglourious Basterds is a 2009 war film written and directed by Quentin Tarantino and starring Brad Pitt, Christoph Waltz, Melanie Laurent, Michael Fassbender, Eli Roth and Diane Kruger. The film tells the fictional alternate history story of two plots to assassinate Nazi Germany's political leadership, one planned by a young French Jewish cinema proprietor (Laurent), and the other by a team of Jewish-American soldiers led by First Lieutenant Aldo Raine (Pitt). The film's title was inspired by director Enzo G. Castellari's 1978 Macaroni Combat film, The Inglorious Bastards.
Development began in 1998, when Tarantino wrote the script. The director struggled with the ending and chose to hold off filming and moved on to direct the two-part film Kill Bill. After directing Death Proof in 2007 (as part of the double feature Grindhouse), Tarantino returned to work on Inglourious Basterds. The film went into production in October 2008 and was filmed in Germany and France with a $70 million production budget. Inglourious Basterds premiered on May 20, 2009 at the 62nd Cannes Film Festival, where it competed for the Palme d'Or. It was widely released in theaters in the United States and Europe in August 2009 by The Weinstein Company and Universal Studios.
The film was commercially successful, grossing over $321 million in theaters worldwide, making it Tarantino's highest-grossing film at that point, and second highest to date, after Django Unchained. It received multiple awards and nominations, including eight Academy Award nominations, including one for Best Picture. For his role as Hans Landa, Waltz won the Cannes Film Festival's Best Actor Award, as well as the BAFTA Award, Screen Actors Guild Award, Golden Globe Award, and the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.
In 1941, SD Colonel Hans Landa (Christoph Waltz), nicknamed the "Jew Hunter", interrogates French dairy farmer Perrier LaPadite (Denis Menochet). To save his family, LaPadite confesses to hiding the Jewish Dreyfus family underneath his floor. Landa orders SS soldiers to shoot through the floorboards and kill the family, but allows teenage Shosanna (Melanie Laurent) to escape.
In spring 1944, 1st Special Service Force Lieutenant Aldo Raine (Brad Pitt) recruits eight Jewish-American soldiers for a mission behind enemy lines, telling them they each owe 100 Nazi scalps and will take no prisoners. The "Basterds" become so feared, Adolf Hitler (Martin Wuttke) personally interviews a soldier, Butz (Sonke Mohring). Butz relates how his squad was ambushed and his sergeant (Richard Sammel) beaten to death with a baseball bat by Staff Sergeant Donny Donowitz (Eli Roth), the "Bear Jew" (feared as Golem by the German soldiers), when the sergeant refused to divulge information. Butz survived by providing the information, but Raine carved a swastika into his forehead with a knife.
In June 1944, Shosanna - who has adopted the alias "Emmanuelle Mimieux" - runs a cinema in Paris. She meets Fredrick Zoller (Daniel Bruhl), a German sniper whose exploits are to be celebrated in a Nazi propaganda film, Stolz der Nation (Nation’s Pride), starring as himself. Attracted to Shosanna, Zoller convinces Joseph Goebbels (Sylvester Groth) to hold the premiere at her cinema. Shosanna seizes the opportunity, secretly resolving with her black projectionist and lover, Marcel (Jacky Ido), to burn down her cinema, to kill the top Nazi leaders at the première. Meanwhile, film critic of German cinema, Lieutenant Archie Hicox (Michael Fassbender), is recruited for "Operation Kino" by British General Ed Fenech (Mike Myers) and Prime Minister Winston Churchill (Rod Taylor). Hicox will rendezvous with their agent, German film star Bridget von Hammersmark (Diane Kruger) and the Basterds, and infiltrate and plant explosives at the premiere.
Hicox and Hugo Stiglitz (Til Schweiger), a convicted German sergeant who was freed by and joined the Basterds after killing several of his superiors, meet von Hammersmark at a tavern, where Staff Sergeant Wilhelm (Alexander Fehling) is celebrating his son's birth. Sturmbannfuhrer (SS rank equivalent to major) Dieter Hellstrom (August Diehl) notices Hicox's odd accent. Hicox gives himself away, signalling three drinks but not holding up his fingers in the German fashion. In the ensuing firefight, everyone except Wilhelm and von Hammersmark is killed. While Raine negotiates with Wilhelm, the actress shoots the sergeant. Though his German-speaking men and Hicox are dead, Raine, upon learning from von Hammersmark that Hitler himself will be attending the premiere, decides to go ahead anyway. He, Donny, and Omar (Omar Doom) pose as von Hammersmark's Italian escort and cameramen. Later, Landa investigates and finds von Hammersmark's shoe and her autographed napkin at the tavern.
At the premiere, Landa, who can speak Italian, is not fooled and sees von Hammersmark privately. He makes her wear the shoe, which fits, and strangles her to death, then orders Raine and Utivich's (B. J. Novak) capture. Landa has Raine contact his commanding officer with the OSS (Harvey Keitel) and brokers a deal: in exchange for not hindering the explosives plan and thus ending the war, he receives immunity, US citizenship, and financial security. During the screening, Zoller slips away to the projection room to see Shosanna, who rejects his advances but then has him lock the door. With his back turned, she fatally shoots him, but he manages to turn and fatally shoots her, as well. Meanwhile, Omar and Donowitz manage to dispatch the soldiers guarding Hitler.
A spliced-in clip of Shosanna's cackling in the cinema informs the audience that they are about to be killed by a Jew. Marcel, having locked the cinema, exits and ignites a pile of extremely flammable nitrate film behind the screen. Omar and Donowitz burst into the screening as it burns and riddle Hitler, Goebbels, and the fleeing crowd with machine gunfire, until the bombs go off and destroy the cinema. Landa and his radio operator drive Raine and Utivich across the American lines, whereupon they surrender. To Landa's horror, Raine shoots the radio operator and has Utivich collect his scalp. Raine expresses his disappointment that Landa will be able to remove his SS uniform after the war, and as a result carves a swastika into Landa's forehead, stating afterwards: "This just might be my masterpiece".
Tarantino spent just over a decade writing the film's script because, as he told Charlie Rose in an interview, he became "too precious about the page," meaning the story kept growing and expanding. Tarantino viewed the script as his masterpiece in the making, so he felt it had to become the best thing he had ever written. Tarantino described an early premise of the film as his "bunch-of-guys-on-a-mission" film. He said it was "my Dirty Dozen or Where Eagles Dare or Guns of Navarone kind of thing". According to Tarantino, all his films make the audience laugh at things that are not supposed to be funny, but the sense of humor differs in each.
"I'm going to find a place that actually resembles, in one way or another, the Spanish locales they had in spaghetti westerns – a no man's land. With US soldiers and French peasants and the French resistance and German occupation troops, it was kind of a no man's land. That will really be my spaghetti Western but with World War II iconography. But the thing is, I won't be period specific about the movie. I'm not just gonna play a lot of Édith Piaf and Andrews Sisters. I can have rap, and I can do whatever I want. It's about filling in the viscera."
By 2002, Tarantino found Inglourious Basterds to be a bigger film than planned and saw that other directors were working on World War II films. At this point, Tarantino had produced three nearly finished scripts, proclaiming that it was "some of the best writing I've ever done. But I couldn't come up with an ending." Consequently, the director held off his planned film and moved on to direct the two-part film Kill Bill (2003–2004). After the completion of Kill Bill, Tarantino went back to his first storyline draft and came up with the idea of turning it into a mini-series. Instead he trimmed the script, using his script for Pulp Fiction as a guide to the right length. He then planned to begin production of Inglourious Basterds in 2005. The revised premise focused on a group of soldiers who escape from their executions and embark on a mission to help the Allies. He described the men as "not your normal hero types that are thrown into a big deal in the Second World War".
In November 2004, Tarantino decided to hold off the film's production and instead took an acting role in Takashi Miike's spaghetti western film Sukiyaki Western Django and intended to make a kung fu film entirely in Mandarin. This project foundered as well, and he ultimately directed a part of the 2007 Grindhouse instead, before returning to work on Inglourious Basterds. The film's title was inspired by the English-language title of director Enzo G. Castellari's 1978 war film, The Inglorious Bastards. When asked for an explanation of the film's title's spelling during a news conference at the Cannes Film Festival, Tarantino said, "I'm never going to explain that". When pushed on it, Tarantino would not explain the first u in Inglourious, but said, "The Basterds? That's just the way you say it: Basterds." Tarantino later stated in an interview that the misspelled title is "a Basquiat-esque touch." He further commented on Late Show with David Letterman that Inglourious Basterds is a "Quentin Tarantino spelling."

