The_Hasty_Heart
Released Year: 1949
Running time: 0
Director: Vincent Sherman
Cast: 
Content: Richard Todd plays an insufferable Scots soldier confined to a World War II military hospital. Ronald Reagan is an all-American patient who befriends the headstrong Scotsman, while Patricia Neal is the compassionate nurse. Gradually the patients grow begrudgingly fond of Todd, and when it is learned that he is suffering from a fatal illness, everyone involved tries to keep his true condition a secret from him. Todd inadvertently discovers the truth, and violently turns against his new buddies. But before the fade-out, friendship wins out over bitterness and self-pity. Filmed in England, Hasty Heart is based on the stage play by John Patrick. 
Wiki info: 
The Hasty Heart is a 1949 British-American co-production film based on the play of the same name by John Patrick.
It tells the story of a group of wounded Allied soldiers in a mobile surgery unit at the end of World War II who, after initial resentment and ostracism, rally around a loner, a heretofore surly, unappreciative Scot when they find out he is dying. The film stars Ronald Reagan as the American, Patricia Neal as the harried nurse, Sister Margaret Parker, Richard Todd as Lachie, the Scot, Anthony Nicholls as the hospital commander, Howard Marion-Crawford as the British soldier, John Sherman as the Australian, and Orlando Martins as the African (affectionately known as "Blossom").
The film was adapted by Ranald MacDougall from Patrick's play, and directed by Vincent Sherman.
The film was the tenth most popular movie at the British box office in 1949.
Richard Todd (who won the role over Gordon Jackson) was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor. The film also won two Golden Globes (Richard Todd for "Most Promising Newcomer - Male" and for "Best Film Promoting International Understanding")
The Hasty Heart was remade for television in 1983. It starred Gregory Harrison, Perry King and Cheryl Ladd. King won a Golden Globe nomination for the role.

