Once_Upon_a_Time_in_a_Battlefield
Released Year: 2003
Running time: 101
Director: Lee Joon-ik
Cast: 
Content: Historical action and hysterical laughter combine as Shilla's King Kim Choon-chu seeks the assistance of the Tang Empire to defeat Koguryo and Baekche, his sworn enemies. In the 7th Century, internal warfare has fractured the Korean peninsula into three kingdoms. If King Kim Choon-chu can convince the Chinese to aid him in bringing down Baekche's strongest fortress, they will breach the mountain interior, and be ready to take on Koguryo. But Baekche General Kye Baek (Park Joong-hoon) isn't about to give up the Hwangsanbul without a fight, and by the time the battle gets underway the stage is set for a massive conflict. 
Wiki info: 
Once Upon a Time in a Battlefield (Hangul: 황산벌; RR: Hwangsanbul), is a Korean comedy movie of 2003. It was directed by Lee Jun-ik. Its plot is about the Battle of Hwangsanbeol between Baekje and Silla in the 7th century. Its popularity has spawned a sequel, titled Battlefield Heroes, which debuted in 2011, and takes place in the subsequent Silla-Tang invasion of Goguryeo.
The movie starts out with a meeting between the rulers of Baekje, Silla, Tang China, and Goguryeo. They are arguing why the Korean southern kingdoms have to pay tribute to China, even though Tang is only 50 years old. The king of Silla sides with the Emperor of Tang. The movie flashes forward to the scene in which Baekje soldiers rush to the king with ill news of Silla and Tang allying together, bringing an army of 50,000 soldiers. The Baekje council discusses battle plans. But in the end, all of the officials run away out of cowardice. The king of Baekje calls for the great warrior, Kyebaek. He accepts the offer to protect his country after three glasses of wine. Kaebaek is forced to kill his family in fear of something worse happening to them. Soon, Gyebaek engages the Silla forces in so called "battles" where the opponents insult the others with Gyebaek winning in the beginning of these battles.

