The_One_That_Got_Away
Released Year: 1957
Running time: 111
Director: Roy Ward Baker
Cast: Hardy Kruger,Michael Goodliffe,Colin Gordon,Alec McCowen,Terence Alexander,Jack Gwillim,Andrew Faulds,Julian Somers,Harry Lockart,Robert Crewdson,George Mikell,George Roubicek,John Van Eyssen,Frederick Jaeger,Richard Marner,Paul Hansard,Edward Cast,Cyril Chamberlain,Michael Golden,Glyn Houston,Stratford Johns,Charles Morgan,Anthony Sagar,Frank Williams,Ken Arts,Michael Ripper,Ben Williams,
Content: The title character in this fact-based POW drama is Franz von Werra, played by Hardy Kruger. Shot down early in the war, Luftwaffe pilot von Werra is incarcerated in an English prison camp. He refuses to submit to camp routine, insisting that he's on the brink of escaping. After two failed attempts, von Werra is transferred to a camp in Montreal. If you want to know what happens next, take a squint at the title. If you want to know how he does it and why he gets away with it, catch the film. One That Got Away was based on a novel by Kendal Burt and James Leasor. 
Wiki info: 
The One That Got Away is a 1957 World War II film starring Hardy Kruger and featuring Michael Goodliffe, Jack Gwillim and Alec McCowen. It was directed by Roy Ward Baker with a screenplay written by Howard Clewes. It is based on the 1956 book of the same name by Kendal Burt and James Leasor.
The film chronicles the true exploits of Oberleutnant Franz von Werra, a Luftwaffe pilot shot down over England in 1940. He initially tries to escape from England, but is more successful when being transferred to a Canadian POW camp.
Luftwaffe fighter pilot Franz von Werra (Hardy Kruger) is shot down during the Battle of Britain, and captured. He bets his RAF interrogator (Michael Goodliffe) at the POW reception centre, Air Defence Intelligence, Cockfosters (London), that he will escape within six months.
He is initially sent to a prisoner of war (POW) camp in Furness. His first escape, solo, sees him recaptured after an intense manhunt while lying in a muddy hole on a moor.
Von Werra is sent to a more secure POW camp (based on the Hayes Conference Centre) near Swanwick, Derbyshire. He and four others escape through a tunnel. The others pair up, but von Werra goes it alone. Reaching Codnor Park railway station, he impersonates a Dutch pilot and claims his Wellington bomber has crashed while on a secret mission. He telephones the nearest airfield, RAF Hucknall, and cons the duty officer into sending a car. When his story starts to fray, von Werra sneaks away and tries to steal an experimental Hawker Hurricane, only to be caught at the last moment.
He and many other POWs are sent by ship to Canada. On the train ride across the country, von Werra escapes near Smiths Falls, Ontario by jumping from a window while the guards are distracted. He makes his way south, and crossing the nearly frozen St Lawrence River using a stolen rowboat, reaches Ogdensburg, New York in the then still-neutral United States, and claims asylum. The RAF interrogator receives a postcard from von Werra featuring a photograph of the Statue of Liberty, informing him that he has lost his bet.
The epilogue states:
Despite the efforts of the Canadian Government to obtain his return, and of the United States Authorities to hold him, von Werra crossed the border into Mexico. Travelling by way of Peru, Bolivia, Brazil and Spain, he reached Berlin on 18th April, 1941.
On October 25th of the same year, while on patrol, his plane was seen to dive into the sea. No trace of von Werra was found.

