The_Last_Drop
Released Year: 2005
Running time: 103
Director: Colin Teague
Cast: 
Content: In the midst of a bold military strike designed to end World War II before Christmas, a skilled team of special operatives are assigned the task of locating a hidden cache of Nazi gold in this tense wartime adventure starring Michael Madsen and Billy Zane. With 35,000 United States troops dropped behind enemy lines in German-occupied Holland, the top-secret team, code-named "Matchbox," sets out to claim the valuable booty and bring it back to aid the U.S. war effort. 
Wiki info: 
The Last Drop is a 2006 war adventure film from Colin Teague. Teague teamed up with Gary Young, with whom he had previously collaborated on the British crime drama films Shooters and Spivs. Incidentally, Andrew Howard and Louis Dempsey, who cowrote Shooters alongside Teague and Young, both appear briefly in the film.
The film is set in the backdrop of World War II, during Operation Market Garden, the largest full scale airborne invasion in history. Corporal Powell (Newbon), an undercover British Intelligence officer, has been given command of a small unit of men, codenamed Matchbox. Their assignment is to retrieve a horde of Dutch gold and art treasures that has been plundered by the Nazis and is now headed for Berlin in a seemingly impregnable safe. Simple enough, but when Matchbox is shot down short of the drop point their plan goes awry and Powell is forced to recruit the assistance of several colorful characters, including a smart mouthed petty thief (Moran), a drunken bomb disposal expert (Flanagan), and a smooth talking pilot with a keen eye for smooth ladies (Zane).
As Powell and his roving band of misfits fight their way through German counterattack, members of the Dutch resistance (Gaskell and Beed) have managed to pinpoint the location of the stolen loot, where it is being closely guarded by the vile SS Major Kessler (Fox) and his troops. Risking their lives, they communicate this vital information to British Intelligence in a courageous attempt to liberate occupied Holland. At the same time, renegade German forces race to get their hands on the loot as well. It’s a race against the clock, in the midst of a heated battle, ending with an enthralling climax.

