Merry_Christmas,_Mr._Lawrence
Released Year: 1983
Running time: 123
Director: Nagisa Oshima
Cast: David Bowie - Maj. Jack 'Strafer' Celliers,Tom Conti - Col. John Lawrence,Ryuichi Sakamoto - Capt. Yonoi,Takeshi Kitano - Sgt. Gengo Hara,Jack Thompson - Group Capt. Hicksley,Johnny Okura - Kanemoto,Alistair Browning - De Jong,James Malcolm - Celliers' brother,Chris Broun - Celliers aged 12,Yuya Uchida - Commandant of military prison,Ryunosuke Kaneda - President of the Court,Takashi Naitô - Lt. Iwata,Tamio Ishikura - Prosecutor,Rokko Toura - Interpreter,Kan Mikami - Lt. Ito,
Content: Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence was the first English-language project of Japanese director Nagisa Oshima (Death by Hanging, In the Realm of the Senses). In tune with his previous filmic essays on racism and brutality, Merry Christmas concentrates on a war of wills between rebellious POW David Bowie and camp commandant Ryuichi Sakomoto. Assuming that his other prisoners' unwillingness to protest their cruel treatment is a sign of weakness, Sakomoto is most impressed by Bowie's enigmatic defiance. While Bowie and Sakomoto seem to be operating on a high spiritual and intellectual plane, bilingual prisoner Tom Conti (the "Mr. Lawrence" of the title) engages in a more standard adversarial relationship with sadistic sergeant Takeshi Kitano. 
Wiki info: 
Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence (Japanese: Senjō no Merī Kurisumasu (戦場のメリークリスマス?), also known as Prisoner of War in many European editions) is a 1983 Japanese film directed by Nagisa Oshima, produced by Jeremy Thomas and starring David Bowie, Tom Conti, Ryuichi Sakamoto and Takeshi Kitano.
It was written by Oshima and Paul Mayersberg and based on Laurens van der Post's experiences during World War II as a prisoner of war as depicted in his works The Seed and the Sower (1963) and The Night of the New Moon (1970). Sakamoto also wrote the score and the vocal theme "Forbidden Colours," featuring David Sylvian, which was a hit single in many territories.
The film was entered into the 1983 Cannes Film Festival in competition for the Palme d'Or. Sakamoto's score also won the film a BAFTA Award for Best Film Music.
The film deals with the relationships among four men in a Japanese prisoner of war camp during the Second World War — Major Jack Celliers (Bowie), a rebellious prisoner with a guilty secret from his youth; Captain Yonoi (Sakamoto), the young camp commandant; Lieutenant Colonel John Lawrence (Conti), a British officer who has lived in Japan and speaks Japanese fluently; and Sergeant Hara (Kitano) who is seemingly brutal and yet humane in some ways and with whom Lawrence develops a peculiar friendship.
Like Celliers, Yonoi, too, is tormented by guilt. Having been posted to Manchuria previously, he was unable to be in Tokyo with his Army comrades, the "Shining Young Officers" of Japan's February 26 Incident, a 1936 military coup d'etat. When the coup fails, the young army officers are executed. Yonoi regrets not being able to share their patriotic sacrifice. Jack Celliers had betrayed his younger brother while the two of them were attending boarding school. Although Celliers confesses this only to Lawrence, Captain Yonoi senses in Celliers a kindred spirit. He wants to replace the British camp commandant Group Captain Hicksley with Celliers as spokesman for the prisoners.
It is Christmas Eve and Sgt Hara is drinking heavily and orders both Celliers and Lawrence to be brought to him. Hara then advises them that he is playing "Santa Claus" and is ordering their release because a prisoner confesses having the radio. He then calls out in English for the first time "Merry Christmas Lawrence."
Captain Yonoi himself is then redeployed and his successor who declares that "he is not as sentimental as Captain Yonoi" immediately has Celliers buried in the ground up to his neck as a means of punishment and then left to die. Captain Yonoi goes to Celliers when there is no one around and cuts a lock of hair. He then pays his respects and leaves, and Celliers dies shortly afterwards.
Four years later, Lawrence visits Sergeant Hara, who has now been imprisoned by the Allied forces. Hara has learned to speak English whilst in captivity. He also reveals that he is going to be executed the next day for war crimes. Lawrence tells him that Yonoi had given him a lock of Celliers hair and told him to take it to his village in Japan and dedicate it in a shrine. Hara reminisces about Celliers and Yonoi. We find out that Yonoi himself was killed just before the war ended. Hara recalls that Christmas Eve and both are very much amused. The two bid each other farewell for the last time. Just before Lawrence leaves, Hara calls out again, "Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas, Mr Lawrence."

