Play Dirty is a 1969 British film inspired by the North African exploits of units such as the Long Range Desert Group, Popski's Private Army and the SAS during World War II. It was directed by Andre De Toth and written by Melvyn Bragg and Lotte Colin. It stars Michael Caine, Nigel Green and Harry Andrews.
In North Africa in World War II, Captain Douglas (Caine) is a BP employee seconded to the Royal Engineers to oversee handling incoming fuel supplies for the British 8th Army. A Popski's Private Army-style colonel (Green) is told he must have a regular officer to lead one of his units on a dangerous mission to destroy an Afrika Korps fuel depot.
Douglas is chosen despite protesting that he is only a port contractor. Douglas's C.O. dismisses his pleas noting that he is wearing a British Army officer's uniform and therefore cannot disobey the order. So Douglas departs on what first seems like a fantasy adventure when he is taken to a Senussi cafe, which is a front for Masters HQ, there Douglas bumps into Cyril Leech. Leech, a convicted criminal rescued from prison by Masters to lead his unit's sabotage missions, directs Douglas to Masters office. Next day, after being briefed and outfitted in Italian uniforms, Douglas, with the unwilling Leech, leads the unit out into the desert disguised as an Italian Army patrol. The unit is made up from convicted criminals that have been released to Masters' command, these include Greek narcotics smuggler Kafkarides, Cypriot smuggler Kostas Manou, Tunisian terrorist Sadok, rapist Boudesh and two simple-minded Senussi tribesmen Hassan and Assine.
The group comes to a cliffside. Leech suggests going back, but Douglas wants to tow the vehicles up the cliff in order to avoid an incoming German patrol. The first two vehicles make it up, but Leech refuses to unload the third one; the cable snaps and the truck and its supplies are lost.&#160;
The group is unaware that Brigadier Blore had sent out a second, larger group of regular servicemen, and that the mercenaries are merely a decoy to flush out German defenses so that the larger group could accomplish the mission and get all the glory. While the mercenaries are at the top of the cliff, the "official" group encounters a German patrol at the bottom. Alerted to the presence of British units by the wreckage of the vehicle, the Germans prepare an ambush. Leech keeps Douglas from helping the regulars, who get massacred by the Germans; Leech justifies this by saying that to survive you "watch, listen, and say nothing".&#160;
The mercenaries encounter a sandstorm and rocky terrain; they've changed their tires eight times and are out of spares. They come across an abandoned battleground with a destroyed vehicle, and decide to take the tires off it and use them on their own vehicles. Douglas is about to pick up a jack to remove the vehicle's tires, but Leech warns him that it may be wired to a bomb. He calls Sadok over, who finds that it is indeed wired and begins to neutralize it. However, Assine and Hassan are looting the corpses; Hassan sets off a bomb and gets badly injured. The group gets their tires and drive off.
As they continue their journey, Assine tells them to stop because Hassan will die if they continue. Douglas points out that there is a German supply road 20 miles ahead, and they continue toward it. When they reach the supply road, Sadok pretends to be injured, stopping a Red Cross vehicle. When two unarmed medics get out of the truck, Douglas shoots them, and he and Leech get into the front, and Sadok climbs into the trailer. Leech and Douglas hear shouting in the trailer, and when Douglas checks it out he says "it's only a nurse".
Leech and Douglas drive the truck to the rest of the group. When they open the rear of the truck, Sadok and a German nurse (Vivian Pickles) are fighting. Leech knocks her down and prepares to kill her when Douglas tells him that she could give Hassan much-needed medical assistance. As the nurse is seeing to Hassan, three of the mercenaries try to rape her; however, Hassan saves her by shooting one of them in the rear with his pistol. Leech and Douglas hear the gunshot and run over, only to see the nurse dressing the bullet wound on her would-be rapist's buttocks.
The group finally reaches the fuel depot. Having bound and gagged the nurse to a bunk in the truck next to Hassan, they adventure out to destroy the depot. However, they find that the depot was actually a decoy set up by the Germans. The mercenaries gather in a "barracks" and Leech tells them that the mission is done. Douglas, however, wants to find the real depot, but the rest of the mercenaries refuse to go along with him so he reluctantly leaves with him.
Back at the Army outpost, Blore shows Masters area photographs that show that the fuel depot was not destroyed, and that that is exactly what they wanted, as the British Army is advancing through the desert and wants the depots for their own use. Unable to contact the mercenaries, Masters and Blore leak their mission to the Germans.&#160;
In a German-controlled port city, Leech tells Douglas that the only reason he is still alive is because Masters promised him £2,000 to bring him back alive. The two find that the real fuel depot is in the city, and decide to destroy it as a diversion so they can steal a boat. The mercenaries, dressed as German soldiers, sneak into the depot. However, Blore and Masters leak their plan to the Germans, and the Germans become aware of the mercenaries. While they are able to cause a lot of chaos with their explosives, all of them except Douglas and Leech get gunned down. While this is going on, the nurse, still tied to a bed in the truck with Hassan, tries to communicate with Hassan through her gag. Suddenly, Hassan coughs up blood, screams "Assine!", and shoots the nurse in the stomach with his pistol. Both the nurse and Hassan presumably die shortly after.&#160;
Leech and Douglas, the only two surviving members of the party, and hiding in a building when British tanks and infantry crash through the walls of the city. Still disguised as German soldiers, they improvise a white flag and walk into the street with their arms up, only to both be shot to death by a trigger-happy British soldier who "didn't see the white flag".&#160;
Originally titled Written in the Sand, the film initially starred Richard Harris - who quit four days into production because of script changes that reduced the size of his role, and a lack of enthusiasm for his co-star Michael Caine. After Nigel Davenport replaced Harris, the film's original director René Clément resigned and executive producer André de Toth took over directing the film.
The film has a heavy anti-war theme. For instance, Colonel Masters is portrayed as being incompetent and more focused on studying Ancient Egypt and Alexander the Great than he is fighting a modern war, and Brigadier Bloore repeatedly orders the death of soldiers so he can be held in high regard in the Army. The movie's "good guys" are terrorists and killers who, during their mission, happily murder civilians, attempt to rape and later kill a German nurse, loot corpses, and sabotage each other's efforts; the "bad guys" range from unarmed medics to rank-and-file German soldiers. The ending scene where Leech and Douglas get shot to death by their own men is a perfect display of the film's anti-war sentiment.
The film, which was shot on location near Tabernas in Almería, Spain, is notable for several long and involved action sequences that play without principal dialogue.
Nigel Davenport's performance is particularly memorable in his role as the lethally efficient, nihilistic officer Captain Leech.
Nigel Davenport was initially cast in a supporting role but was given the second lead after Richard Harris was fired because he refused to get a military-style haircut.
Captain Douglas (Michael Caine) is the British army leader who is ordered to lead a band of mercenaries into the desert. Their mission is to knock out an enemy fuel reserve. The inexperienced captain contends with a veteran Colonel (Nigel Green) who is enamored with using old history books to fight modern battles. Cyril Leech (Nigel Davenport) is the experienced mercenary hired by Brigadier Blore (Harry Andrews) to help guide Douglas and his group through the dangerous plot. Leech and Douglas have differences of opinion on how to successfully carry out the mission. As if the trouble with the Nazi wasn't enough, Brigadier Blore sells them out by tipping off the enemy through a spy. Douglas and the few men he has left must survive the sweltering heat and the enemy gunfire in order to insure their survival. ~ Dan Pavlides, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 118&nbsp;mins
