World War II: When Lions Roared (also known as Then There Were Giants) is a 1994 TV movie, directed by Joseph Sargent, that stars Michael Caine, John Lithgow and Bob Hoskins as the three major Allied leaders. It was the first video production to be produced in an early form of analog high-definition video using the Sony HDVS line of equipment expressly for broadcast in the United States on the NBC television network.
The film portrays Roosevelt, Churchill, and Stalin as they maneuver their countries through several of the major events of World War II - such events include the Blitz, Operation Barbarossa, the bombing of Pearl Harbor, the North African Campaign, the Allied invasion of Italy, and concluding with the Tehran Conference.
In particular, the focus is on the relationship between the leaders themselves and the large strategic concerns at play, with little scrutiny given to the decisions taking place at a lower level - an example of this is how, despite his personal disdain for communism, Churchill was willing to go to great lengths to aid the Soviet Union in their fight against Nazi Germany.
The feature was met with mixed to positive reviews. Rotten Tomatoes awarded it a 100% audience pecentage, while IMDb gave it a 6.6 rating.
It was nominated for 6 Emmy Awards, including Best Actor for Michael Caine, but only won for Outstanding Individual Achievement in Lighting Direction (Electronic) for a Drama Series, Variety Series, Miniseries or a Special.
The film was released on a two-disc DVD set on February 13, 2007.
This made-for-TV historical drama focuses on the sometimes uneasy alliances between three of the world's great leaders -- Franklin D. Roosevelt (John Lithgow), Winston Churchill (Bob Hoskins), and Joseph Stalin (Michael Caine) -- as they met in 1943 for the Tehran Conference, in which they discussed the Allied drive against Germany and the possible postwar relationship between the three nations. With all dialogue for the three principle characters drawn from transcripts and reporting of the event, Then There Were Giants was first aired as a two-part miniseries; it was later released on home video under the title World War II: When Lions Roared. ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 184&nbsp;mins
