The Purple Heart is a 1944 American war film directed by Lewis Milestone.
It is a dramatization of the trial of a number of US airmen by the Japanese during the Second World War. It is loosely based on the trial of eight airmen who took part in the April 18, 1942, Doolittle Raid. Three were executed and one died as a POW.
It starred Dana Andrews as the leader of the downed crew, and was directed by Lewis Milestone. Eighteen-year-old Farley Granger had a supporting role.
In April 1942 the crew of a downed American B-25 Mitchell bomber are captured in a Wang Jingwei controlled section of China by a Chinese collaborator who transferred them to the Imperial Japanese Army. General Mitsubi refuses to allow the Swiss Consul to contact Washington. At the start of the trial, Lt. Greenbaum, an attorney in civilian life (CCNY Law 1939), explains that the trial is illegal, the men are in the military service of their country.
The men suffer the interrogation and torture of the Japanese, the senior officer Captain Ross refuses to answer questions of the sly General Mitsubi. The general decides to break the men: Sgt. Jan Skvoznik, (screams are heard off camera) is left in a catatonic state with a permanent head twitch. In court the men see the pitiful state of Skvoznik, Lts. Canelli and Vincent rush the Japanese general, quickly felled by rifle butts. They are returned to their cell, Canelli, an artist has a broken right hand and arm; Vincent, in a catatonic state much like Skvoznik. Sgt. Clinton returns seemingly unharmed, the Japanese have ruptured his vocal cords, he is unable to speak. The Japanese have a listening device in the cell when Greenbaum repeats what the speechless Clinton writes, if anything happens to Lt. Bayforth, he will tell all. After torture Bayforth returns with his hands and arms useless covered in black rubber gloves.
The story relates the torture and hardship the men endured while in captivity, and their final humiliation: being tried, convicted and executed as war criminals. Throughout, the American stalwarts are subjected to mistreatment and systematic abuse by the sadistic General Mitsubi (Richard Loo) who ultimately chooses to shoot himself, in the face of his captives' unshakable resolve and the realization that the Japanese are doomed to destruction.
The film was a work of wartime propaganda that had a stereotypical portrayal of the Japanese (usually by actors of non-Japanese origin) as sadistic tyrants. It concluded with a speech where one airman declares that he now knew that he had understood the Japanese less than he had thought, and that they did not know Americans if they thought this would frighten them.
At the time of its release, the war in the Pacific was still raging and there was little concern for such excesses. The December 7, 1941, Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor was still fresh in the minds of the American public. In later years, many of the principal players, including Dana Andrews, came to express regret over the more distasteful aspects of the film.
By the time of the film's release, the two engine North American B-25 Mitchell Medium Bomber, used in the Doolittle raid, was being used for lighter missions against Japan, having been supplanted by the Boeing B-29 Superfortress.
Released during the war, the film inspired patrons to purchase thousands of dollars of War Bonds, and opened to good reviews.
Years after the trial, the four survivors of the trial were repatriated back to the U.S. While three became regular civilians, one would return to Japan to be a minister: this was told by Walter Cronkite on the TV show The Twentieth Century.
Lewis Milestone directed in 1960, the Rat Pack caper Oceans 11. The cast included stars from The Purple Heart. Richard Conte, as ex-con Tony Bergdorf; John Craven, a casino cashier who refuses to cash a check for Red Skelton and Don Barry, one of the robbed casino managers.
The year is 1942: eight American airmen crash-land during the Doolittle bombing raid on Tokyo and are taken prisoner. Though slated for execution, the pilots are put through a "show trial" by the military, on a charge of committing war crimes. The Japanese judges promise to be merciful if only the Americans will reveal vital US military secrets. But captain Dana Andrews speaks for the rest of his melting-pot crew-some of whom have been subjected to the most horrific of tortures--when he chooses death before dishonor. In its own way, The Purple Heart is as racist a piece of propaganda as was ever produced by Hollywood. The Japanese are shown to be little more than sadistic beasts (at one point, the judges interrupt the trial by moronically shouting "Banzai" after receiving news of a military victory), while hissing, buck-toothed interrogator Richard Loo ("I attended your...Amelican universities"), unable to admit that he's been wrong about Yankee resilience, commits hara-kiri. Remember, however, that The Purple Heart was made at a time when America was still at war with Japan, and political correctness was hardly a consideration. Its jingoism aside, the film is a first-rate piece of moviemaking, socked across by director Lewis Milestone with the same fervor that he'd expended on his anti-war masterpiece All Quiet on the Western Front (1930). ~ Hal Erickson, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 100&nbsp;mins
