The Inglorious Bastards (Italian: Quel maledetto treno blindato, literally That damned armored train) is a 1978 Italian war film directed by Enzo G. Castellari, written by Sandro Continenza, Sergio Grieco, Franco Marotta, Romano Migliorini, and Laura Toscano, and starring Bo Svenson, Peter Hooten, Fred Williamson, Michael Pergolani, and Jackie Basehart. The film score was written by Francesco De Masi.
In France during World War II, a group of American soldiers are in the process of being shipped off to military prison for a variety of infractions, ranging from desertion to murder. While they are being transported, a German air attack hits the convoy, killing most of the prisoners but allowing the five surviving prisoners to fight off the escorting MPs and escape.
The group decides to make their escape to neutral Switzerland, but on the way they end up volunteering for a commando mission to steal the new prototype gyroscope for the Nazi V2 with help of the French Resistance. Somehow the team must sneak onto the most heavily guarded train in German territory, steal the Nazis' most precious military hardware, and bring it back to the Allies without getting arrested again by their own side.
The original working title was Bastardi senza gloria (literally: Bastards Without Glory). The first attempt to make this movie took place in 1976 in the United States and involved an approach proposed by Bo Richards to filmmaker Ted V. Mikels. Mikels rejected it on the grounds that a movie pitched as a Dirty Dozen follow-up was a decade late, and any insistence on preserving a title containing the word "bastard" would spell box office failure in the 1970s. The film was released in the United States as The Inglorious Bastards; it was also issued as Hell's Heroes and as Deadly Mission on home video.
The American success of the blaxploitation genre led distributors to reedit this film and distribute it as G.I. Bro—in this version, scenes were cut to make Fred Williamson the lead character. The tagline on this version was: "If you're a kraut, he'll take you out!"
The reissue title for this film was Counterfeit Commandos. Severin Films released a three-disc set that features a newly remastered transfer of the film, an interview with Quentin Tarantino (the director of the similarly titled but unrelated film Inglourious Basterds) and director Enzo G. Castellari, trailers, a tour of shooting locations, a documentary on the making of the film with interviews with Bo Svenson, Fred Williamson, and Enzo G. Castellari, and a CD with the soundtrack. Both spellings appear on the DVDs: one says the full word "Bastards" and the other, "Basterds".
The Inglorious Bastards was the alternate title for the Italian adventure yarn Counterfeit Commandos. The main characters are five soldiers facing court-martial in World War II France. The quintet consists of Bo Svenson, Fred Williamson, Peter Hooten, Michael Pergolami, and Jackie Basehart. The men escape, heading to the safety of the Swiss border; along the way, they pull off several random acts of above-and-beyond heroism. ~ Hal Erickson, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 99&nbsp;mins
