The 2004 film, The Fallen by director Ari Taub, is a World War II film depicting the confusion of both sides in wartime Italy. The film portrays partisans and regular soldiers ineffectively coursing through the difficult mountainous terrain. The suggestive dialogue is seen with a minute portrayal of dark humor during combat where both sides are hesitant to win over the other side due to the chaotic nature of discord, disorganization and the conflicts of war in general.
A group of uniformed but inexperienced quartermasters are tasked with taking ammo to the front line. The American soldiers meet with an insane American deserter. While en route to their destination, the jeep breaks down and they abandon the jeep. Despite protestations, they commandeer the refugees' wheelbarrow, and set off cross-country on foot. The refugees get the vehicle started and make use of it themselves.
Meanwhile, the Italian troops who are treated as inferiors by their German counterparts, are given rations. The fact that they are allotted half rations causes a riot. The Germans also wish the Italians to take on the lesser task of confronting the partisans, rather than take on the Americans directly for their own gain. When the two Italian parties meet they are reluctant to fight, the partisans coerce some men to swap sides. When the Italian troops run into the pseudo-partisans, some of them become Communist sympathizers to avoid death. Their leader is shot and his two henchmen are recruited into the army.
The Americans take shelter in a farm overnight. A majority of them are of Italian descent, including one socially accepted combat-soldier who accompanies them. An alleged Scottish resident sheltering with them is actually a German spy and radios their position to the German army officer who is constantly having trouble with cut communication cables.
The Italian troops bravely resist in a confrontation with the quartermaster group, yet are later faced with a tank, killing a lead member of their group. The quartermasters reach the front line until they are requested to help with the battle by engaging the Germans directly. The Germans have the disadvantage of not directly engaging with the partisans because communication cable lines are constantly cut.
The Germans are ordered to retreat except for the commanding officer himself, one sergeant and an earlier soldier who has lost his leg in the course of combat. The volunteers stay behind knowing that they will certainly die. The main opposing officer and unnamed soldier take position in a machine gun nest for their last stand. They make a heroic effort, all dying in the process, while taking as many Americans with them as possible, finally being killed by the crazy American deserter whom we meet in the beginning of the film.
The film received a score of 62100 from 7 critics on Metacritic.com. Rotten Tomatoes gave the film an 86% and an average rating of 6.710
War makes for uneasy alliances and dangerous loyalties in this period military drama. During the waning days of World War II in late 1944, German troops in the Italian Alps are struggling to defend "the Gothic Line," their ultimate line of defense, with the help of a battalion of Italian soldiers as American forces on the other side are poised to attack. While Italy may be allied with Germany in the war, many of the soldiers feel little sympathy for their cause, and the Italian villagers nearby are as frequently in cahoots with Communist resistance fighters as with Yankee soldiers, a number of whom have Italian blood. Lt. Gunther Breukner (Thomas Pohn) leads the German troops, while Lt. Bruno Gianini (Fabio Sartor) commands the Italian reinforcements. Sgt. Ricky Malone (John McVay) is temporarily in charge of a band of American soldiers when a cache of supplies must be escorted to the front lines; Malone and his men must also escort an injured G.I. to a field hospital for medical attention. Sal (John O'Leary), one of the American fighters, is hoping to do some business with Rossini (Carmine Raspaolo), a local black marketer, before they hit the road, as Sal has confiscated some vintage wine he'd like to unload for the right price. En route to the front, Malone's troops are sidelined by the breakdown of their truck and are taken in by an Italian family for the night. While the Yankee G.I.s enjoy the attention of some attractive women from the nearby village, they also make friends with a similarly stranded Scottish officer (Milton Welsch), unaware that he's actually a spy for Axis intelligence. But neither the German agent nor the American soldiers realize the family that has given them shelter is affiliated with the Communist underground. The Fallen was directed by Ari Taub, who screened an earlier version of the film in 2003 under the title "Letters from the Dead." ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 110&nbsp;mins
