The 9th Company (Russian: 9 Рота) is a 2005 Russian–Finnish–Ukrainian film directed by Fyodor Bondarchuk and set during the Soviet War in Afghanistan. The film is loosely based on the events of the Battle for Hill 3234.
The film starts with a farewell ceremony in Krasnoyarsk, where a band of young recruits is preparing for their departure to their place of military service. On arrival at their bootcamp in the Fergana Valley of Uzbekistan they get confronted with their drill instructor, 1st Lt. Dygalo, a veteran of several tours in Afghanistan and a very harsh and brutal trainer which is treating the boys very harsh and forces them to make physical sport exercises every day. During their harsh and brutal training, the recruits overcome their differences and build bonds. Between the harsh training sessions they receive lessons in operating dangerous plastic explosives and how to behave themselves right in the foreign territory. After passing their training they get sent on the straight way to Afghanistan. On their arrival at Baghram air base they greet soldiers which have fulfilled their military service and return home. One of the departing soldiers (also from Krasnoyarsk) gives one of the new arrivals, Lyutyi a talisman that he claims has kept him safe through five tours and twenty eight firefights. Homeward bound, the departing soldier's transport is hit by enemy fire from the nearby mountains and crashes, giving the new recruits their first taste of the war. Shortly thereafter the soldiers receive their new assignment, with the 9th company, where their trainer and drill instructor, Dygalo had previously served. The company is soon deployed to the front as part of Operation Magistral and is instructed to hold a nameless hill at all costs. After some preliminary skirmishes, the company's position comes under sustained attack by a large number of Mujahedin fighters and is nearly over run. In the end, the company holds the hill until reinforcements arrive, by which time only one of the original recruits, Lyutyi is still alive.
The film is loosely based on a real-life battle that took place at Hill 3234 in early 1988, during the last large-scale Soviet military operation (Magistral) in Afghanistan.
In the film, only one soldier from the company is shown to have survived unscathed and the company is said to have been "forgotten" by command because of the Soviet withdrawal. In reality, the 9th Company, 345th Independent Guards Airborne Regiment was pinned down under heavy fire on Hill 3234 from 7-8 January 1988. They managed to stop 3 attacks by an estimated 200-250 mujahideen. The company lost a total of 6 men. Another 28 out of the total 39 were seriously wounded. Four of the killed soldiers were posthumously awarded the golden star of the Hero of the Soviet Union. The unit was in constant communication with headquarters and received everything the regimental commander, Colonel Valery Vostrotin, could provide in terms of rations, ammunition, reinforcements, and helicopter evacuation of the wounded.
The film received a mixed reaction from the veterans of that war, who pointed to a number of inaccuracies, but nevertheless, judging by ticket sales, was embraced by the general public, and even by Russian President Vladimir Putin. Although first released in 2005, and broadcast on TV in several nations, it was not released in the US until 2010 as a DVD.
Release dates:
The film was released in September 2005 and became a Russian box office hit, generating $7.7 million in its first five days of release alone, a new domestic record.
In 2006, Russia selected the film as its candidate for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film nomination. It was also given the Golden Eagle Award for Best Feature Film by the Russian Academy of Cinema Arts.
History
Films
Fedor Bondarchuk, the son of noted Russian filmmaker Sergei Bondarchuk, debuts as a director with the harrowing and relentless military drama 9th Company, set between 1988 and 1989 at the tail end of the U.S.S.R. Afghani war (the Soviet equivalent of Vietnam). The picture opens in Krasnoyarsk, Siberia, in late 1988, when military trainees Petrovsky, Ryaba, Chugun, Stas, Pinochet, Lyutev and Vorobyev are whipped into shape at a training camp by the brutal, sadistic commander, Warrant Officer Dygalo - prior to being sent off to the front lines. After several one-by-one dalliances with the local whore, Snow White, and a cautionary lecture on the history, geography and culture of Afghanistan (which most of the men sleep through), the trainees head off to battle - first to the Bagram air base, then to the Afghani province of Khost to secure supply lines. But nothing can begin to prepare them for the brutal devastation into which they are plunged, or the relentless tide of slaughter that scatters thousands of Soviet victims in its wake. ~ Nathan Southern, RoviSee All 9th Company Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 140&nbsp;mins
