Everyman's War is an independent narrative feature war film directed by Thad Smith. It was released on DVD in the U.S. on May 18, 2010 by Virgil Films & Entertainment and in 43 countries internationally by Koan Entertainment. Additionally it was released in Spain by Paramount Pictures in May 2010 under the title "Los héroes de Las Árdenas." Based on the true story of Sgt. Don Smith of the 94th Infantry Division. Much of the film takes place during January 1945 near Nennig, Germany in the Battle of the Bulge. The film was awarded with 'Best Narrative Feature' at the 2009 GI Film Festival and several other awards including a "Film Excellence" award for directing by the Film Oregon Alliance.
As the seasoned infantry and tank units of the German 11th Panzer "Ghost" division move silently into position on the snow covered hills around Nennig, Germany, a battle weary GI and his unit stand ready to defend the small town, a key position in the Allied advance to win the war.
Outgunned and outnumbered, Sgt Don Smith (Cole Carson) struggles to find hope and courage against overwhelming odds in one of the decisive confrontations in the Battle of the Bulge during WWII. His squad of GI's of the 94th Infantry Division lay dug in on the ridge-line outside of town. No one in high command believed that German forces would attack in the sub zero temperatures and near blizzard conditions. As the pre-dawn attack comes, with communications down Sgt. Smith is left with no choice but to make his way through enemy fire, unarmed and wounded, into town and warn of the coming attack.
Based on actual accounts, Everyman's War explores the heroic events of this decorated veteran's courage and the struggle between duty and desire. Between the prospect of the life and love that waits at home and the harsh realities of war which marks the pivotal epoch in his life, he discovers that the loss of hope can be worse than the loss of life.
Inspired by a true story, director Thad Smith's snowbound World War II drama details the attack by the German 11th Panzer "ghost" division on the small town of Nenning, Germany, and one GI's noble attempt to ensure Allied forces maintained the upper hand in the Battle of the Bulge. In order to win the war, it's crucial that the Allies maintain control of Nenning. As Allied troops take their positions on the ridgeline surrounding the town, the snow begins to fall and the Germans launch a surprise attack. With dawn fast approaching and all communications cut off, Sgt. Don Smith (Cole Carson) realizes that Nenning is about to become the site of a bloody struggle, and that he must warn the locals to evacuate before the bullets start to fly. Cold, alone, and unarmed, Sgt. Smith summons every last ounce of courage he has to ensure victory and save lives. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Everyman's War Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 104&nbsp;mins
