Bombs Over Burma (AKA The Devil's Sister), based on a story by Milton Raison, is a 1943 American war film. To depict the Chinese character faithfully, the star, Anna May Wong and other characters, speak Mandarin in the first few minutes of the film.
In 1942, Chinese guerrillas fighting for the Allied cause in Burma during World War II are helping to build a road. During the construction of a military supply road like the Burma Road and Ledo Road, the project is sabotaged by an English nobleman who is a Nazi agent.
Using a scientific device, the English nobleman is instrumental in the coordination of a Japanese air attack on supply trucks attempting to cross a key bridge. A Chinese school teacher (Anna May Wong) reveals the schemes of the traitor, and brings about his destruction at the hands of Chinese peasants armed with picks and shovels.
As appearing in Bombs Over Burma, (main roles and screen credits identified):
Lack of an adequate budget and a two-week shooting schedule hampered the production, limiting Bombs Over Burma to "B-fare".
Production values doomed Bombs Over Burma both at the box office and with critics. The review in The New York Times succinctly called it a "dud", laded with stock shots, even recognizable "California architecture." Later reviews such as that of Leonard Maltin, noted that the film was an "... interesting if failed attempt to make a hard-hitting, topical film ... Directorcowriter Lewis' visual flair can't save a talky, pedestrian script. Wong comes off well, as usual."
Alpha Video released the film on region-1 DVD on June 28, 2005.
Of the two PRC Anna May Wong vehicles filmed during the 1942-43 season, Bombs Over Burma is marginally the best, thanks to the cinematic savvy of writer-director Joseph H. Lewis. Relying more on strong visuals than clever dialogue, the film details the contributions of the courageous Chinese guerilla fighters in keeping the Burma Road safe for Allied transport vehicles during WW2. During the arduous construction of the serpentine thoroughfare, a number of Chinese workers are killed by a mysterious saboteur. It turns out that the assailant is English nobleman Sir Roger Howe (Leslie Denison), who is actually a Nazi agent. Chinese schoolteacher Lin Yung (Anna May Wong) is the freedom fighter responsible for the unmasking and ultimate destruction of the duplicitous Sir Roger (the villain's death scene is the film's hands-down highlight). ~ Hal Erickson, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 65&nbsp;mins
