Lotna is a Polish war film released in 1959 and directed by Andrzej Wajda.
This highly symbolic movie is both the director's tribute to the long and glorious history of the Polish cavalry, as well as a more ambiguous portrait of the passing of an era. Wajda was the son of a Polish Cavalry officer who was murdered by the Soviets during the Katyn massacre.
The horse Lotna represents the entire Romantic tradition in culture, a tradition that had a huge influence in the course of Polish history and the formation of Polish literature. Lotna is Wajda's meditation on the historical breaking point that was 1939, as well as a reflection on the ending of an entire era for literature and culture in Poland and in Europe as a whole. Writing of the film, Wajda states that it "held great hopes for him, perhaps more than any other." Sadly, Wajda came to think of Lotna "a failure as a film."
The film remains highly controversial, as Wajda includes a mythical scene in which Polish horsemen suicidally charge a unit of German tanks.
Poland has been invaded by Nazi Germany. Lotna, a beautiful mare that belonged to a wealthy nobleman, is given to Captain Chodakiewicz (Jerzy Pichelski), the commander of a Polish Cavalry squadron, and immediately becomes a bone of contention for everyone in the unit.
Lieutenant Wodnicki (Adam Pawlikowski), Cadet Grabowski (Jerzy Moes) and Sergeant Major Laton (Mieczysław Loza) jealously scheme among themselves to get their hands on the horse. However, the war takes the lives of Captain Chodakiewicz and Cadet Grabowski, and Lotna falls is passed to Wodnicki. Laton feels he should get the animal and so he steals Lotna and flees amidst the abandoned supply wagons and equipment of the retreating Polish Army.
Two years after winning the Special Jury Prize for Kanal at the 1957 Cannes Film Festival, renowned Polish director Andrzej Wajda directed this allegorical World War II drama. The film follows the winding paths of Lotna, a snow-white mare, as she wanders through Poland during it's fight against the Nazis in 1939. As the poorly-equipped Poles wage an ill-fated struggle against the militarily superior German forces, Lotna is passed along to a series of soldiers as each is mortally wounded in battle. Written by Wajda and Wojciech Zukrowski, Lotna stars Jerzy Pichelski, Adam Pawlikowski, and Jerzy Moes. ~ Matthew Tobey, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 87&nbsp;mins
