Rebel is a 2012 Telugu action film written and directed by Raghava Lawrence. The film stars Prabhas, Tamanna, Deeksha Seth and Krishnam Raju and was produced by J. Bhaghawan and J. Pulla Rao under Sri Balaji Cine Media banner. Apart from directing, Raghava Lawrence also handled the choreography, screenplay and music direction for the film. The film was released worldwide on September 28, 2012.
Rishi (Prabhas) is a happy-go-lucky guy who is the son of Bhupathi (Krishnam Raju). Rishi is influenced by his father's ideals and grows just like his father. But Bhupathi doesn't want his son to follow the violence and make more enemies. He sends his son to Bangalore for his higher studies and learn music. There Rishi falls for Deepali (Deeksha Seth), an orphan and brings her to his house in the disguise of his old music teacher as he wants his father to be happy that he doesn't take up the violence. During the festivals held in their village, the truth is revealed in the fight between the thugs sent by Simhadri (Pradeep Rawat) to kill Bhupathi and Rishi saves his father by eliminating all the thugs. Simhadri, on the other hand, joins hands with Bhupathi's brother (Mukesh Rishi) and kills Bhupathi and Deepali in a temple.
Rishi sets to avenge his family and is assisted by Raju (Supreet), who had assisted Bhupathi. He finds that there is another person named Stephen (K. C. Shankar) involved in the disaster along with his father's brother (now changed to Robert). Rishi now sets a trap to find the whereabouts of Stephen and Robert, who are ruling the underworld,using their assistant Nanu. For that, he makes Nandini (Tamanna), daughter of Nanu, to fall for him. In the end he kills the goons and unites with Nandini.
The film was officially launched at Annapurna Studios on December 2, 2010 with Anushka Shetty as heroine opposite Prabhas. It was also announced that S. Thaman would compose the soundtrack of the film.
In December 2, 2010, opening ceremony of the film took place in Hyderabad. In the event, it was announced that J. Bhagawan and J. Pullarao would produce the film and it will be directed by Raghava Lawrence and would star Prabhas and Anushka in lead roles. The main cast was also announced during the event which included Brahmanandam, Mukesh Rishi, Kelly Dorjee, Sayaji Shinde, Ali, MS Narayana, Chalapathi Rao, Jayaprakash Reddy, Supreet and Jeeva. In February 2011, it was announced that Deeksha Seth would play the second lead in the film. The filming was delayed due to various reasons causing Anushka to opt out of the project. In August 2011, it was announced that Tamanna was cast to replace Anushka.  In January 2011, it was reported that Krishnam Raju would play a vital role in the film. It was later confirmed that he would be portraying a father character while popular Telugu actress Prabha would play the role of a mother.
After much delays, the regular filming began on May 21, 2011. In the fifty days of working schedule, one action episode and a song was filmed.In October 2011, it was reported that the filming will take place in Bangkok where action sequences would be shot. In December 2011, it was reported that the unit would go back to Bangkok to shoot some vital scenes and action sequences with Tamannah and Prabhas. After completing the Bangkok schedule, filming resumed at Shamshabad Temple near Hyderabad. It was reported that a special set worth 2 crores was built at Shamshabad and filming took place in it with 100 fighters and over 1000 extras participating in the schedule. In March 2012, it was reported that another set was built at Ramoji Film City where the climax episodes with 30 Russian fighters were shot.
In June 2012, the unit had gone back to Bangkok for the third time to shoot two songs of the movie. After completing the schedule, the filming resumed at Pollachi where scenes on Prabhas and other lead cast were canned. The filming shifted to Pondicherry where action episodes involving Prabhas were shot. The last schedule of filming took at Aluminium factory in Hyderabad.
The film has been postponed several times in this year due to delay in post production works. After much delay, finally the film was released worldwide on September 28, 2012.
On August 7, 2012 the first look posters of the film were launched. On August 17, 2012 a press conference was held at Hyderabad in which a thirty second teaser was launched.
It was announced that 7 Seas, a premier entertainment company has bagged the overseas theatrical distribution rights of the film. The theatrical distribution rights for the nizam region were bought by Dil Raju for 9 crores. and the rights for Vizag region were bagged by Bellamkonda Suresh for 3.06 crores. Distribution rights for ceded region were bought by NV Prasad and Bellary Sai for an amount of 5.75 crores. Tamil Nadu theatrical distribution rights were sold for 33 lakhs. The film made excellent business all over and is up amongst the best films in terms of pre-release revenues.
Sashidhar from "The Times of India" has stated that "The film belongs to hard-core Prabhas fans as the movie is stylish and visually rich but not much in content". Purnima Ranawat from "NDTV" has stated that "Rebel serves up fare for the mass audience. The film will be definitely liked by Prabhas' fans. Watch it for the dancing talent of Tamannaah Bhatia and action skills of Prabhas." Radhika Rajamani from "Rediff.com" gave the movie one and half stars out of five and commented "Working with hardly any storyline, director Raghava Lawrence had made a film that is arduous to watch." and finally concluded by stating that "Rebel is a movie for the masses and certainly not for the discerning audience."
Jeevi from "Idlebrain.com" gave the film a 3 out of 5 rating and stated "Rebel is an revenge-based action film. Prabhas is known as one of the best mass stars of Telugu cinema. Lawrence’s movies are known to appeal to the raw senses of mass movie lovers. Rebel is no exception. Interval block is really good. Rebel has decent commercial elements and targeted at masses. Masses will like it. Reviewer from "OneIndia.com" has stated that "A treat for Prabhas fans" and has given a 3 out of 5 rating for the film. Mahesh Koneru from "123Telugu.com" has stated that "For regular commercial cinema lovers, Rebel will be an ok watch". Reviewer from "Supergoodmovies.com" has also stated that "For regular commercial cinema lovers, Rebel will be an ok watch" and has given a 3 out of 5 rating for the film.
The film has collected 5.86 crores on its first day in Andhra Pradesh. The film has collected 23.32 crores worldwide in its first weekend. The film has collected 24.37 crores in its first week in India. The film has collected approximately 33.35 nett crores in its first week worldwide. The film has completed 50 days on November 16, 2012.
The Vcd's , Dvd's   and Blu-ray's  of the film were released on January 22, 2013 through Sri Balaji Video company.
Initially S. Thaman was revealed to be the composer but he opted out of the film instead Raghava Lawrence himself composed the music. The soundtrack of the film was released through Aditya Music label on September 14, 2012 at Shilpakala Vedika in Hyderabad. The album consists of five songs. The lyrics for four songs were penned by Ramajogayya Sastry and one song was written by Bhaskarabhatla.
This WW II musical is set in Australia and chronicles the exploits of a nightclub singer and the young Marine who loves her. She works in a Quonset hut turned into a saloon and helps stage shows for battle-weary troops returning from the South Seas. After one performance she holds a small party in her apartment and there meets the Marine sergeant who has just sailed in from Guadalcanal. Although she is married and awaiting the return of her husband, who is also at war, he decides to pursue her. Later she learns that her husband has been killed. Soon after, the Marine confesses that he can no longer handle the violence and has gone AWOL. ~ Sandra Brennan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 93&nbsp;mins
