Reunion in France (1942) is a Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer feature film starring Joan Crawford, John Wayne, and Phillip Dorn and in a story about a woman who, suspecting her well-heeled lover has Nazi connections, aids a downed American flyer. The screenplay by Jan Lustig, Marvin Borowsky and Marc Connelly was based upon an original screen story by Leslie Bush-Fekete. The film was directed by Jules Dassin and produced by Joseph L. Mankiewicz.
1940 in Paris, Michele de la Becque (Joan Crawford) is a career woman in love with industrial designer Robert Cortot (Philip Dorn). Together they enjoy a luxurious lifestyle unfazed by the approach of World War II. Michele discovers her lover is socializing with Nazi officers and his plants are manufacturing weapons for the Nazis. She confronts him and he does not deny her evidence. She is outraged. She aids a downed American in the Eagle Squadron of the Royal Air Force bomber pilot Pat Talbot (John Wayne) from Pennsylvania and finds herself falling in love with him. Later, she discovers Cortot is turning out defective weapons for the Nazis and organizing a French fighting force. Michele is happily reunited with Cortot.
Film Daily noted, "The film, directed capably by Jules Dassin, has been given a first-rate production by Joseph L. Mankiewicz."
T.S. in the New York Times observed, "If Reunion in France is the best tribute that Hollywood can muster to the French underground forces of liberation, then let us try another time.  ... is ...simply a stale melodramatic exercise for a very popular star. In the role of a spoiled rich woman who finds her "soul" in the defeat of France, Joan Crawford is adequate to the story provided her, but that is hardly adequate to the theme."
Years after making the film, Joan Crawford was quoting as saying this about Reunion in France: "Oh God. If there is an afterlife and I am to be punished for my sins, this is one of the pictures they'll make me see over and over again. John Wayne and I both went down for the count, not just because of a silly script but because we were so mismatched. Get John out of the saddle and you've got trouble." 
Better known as Reunion in France, this women's-magazine-style romantic melodrama was the first major production for director Jules Dassin -- who was promptly demoted back to the MGM "B" department when the picture tanked at the box office. Joan Crawford stars as Frenchwoman Michele de la Becque, who comes to believe that her fiancé, wealthy munitions manufacturer Robert Cortot (Philip Dorn) is a Nazi collaborator. When her suspicions are apparently corroborated, Michelle falls in love with Pat Talbot (John Wayne), a downed American aviator stranded in occupied Paris. Only then does Michelle discover that she's been all wrong about Cortot -- but what to do about Talbot, who has been marked for death by the Gestapo? Ava Gardner has a tiny role as a Parisian shopgirl. ~ Hal Erickson, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 104&nbsp;mins
