The Divine Weapon (Hangul: 신기전; RR: Singijeon) is a 2008 South Korean film.
During the reign of King Sejong the Great, Joseon Korea faces increasing hostility from Ming China. Ming China, without restraint, mounts unrelenting demands against the Korean crown, further entrenching distrust and aversion to subservience. Ming China has especially been provoked by a leaked news that Korea had under way an arms development program that would undermine theirs. Mounting pressure by threat of invasion and sending down Emperor's commands requesting young Korean girls to be sent to China, to reduce Korea's manpower and debilitate its military capacity, the grip around the throat becomes ever tighter. It seems Joseon's fate is dependent on completing an unfinished project - that of making Singijeon or the Divine Weapon a reality.
In the final battle, severely outnumbered Korean forces (less than 100 men) successfully defeat the thousands of Ming Chinese in armed combat with spears, bombs, and several finished Singijeon via several hwachas. Thousands of Ming Chinese footsoldiers are killed as the arrows in the Singijeon are launched. More are killed with the gunpowder packed inside the arrows(Standard Singeijeons). Those in the Ming Chinese army who remained are finished off with the large model Singijeons (대신기전,Grand Singijeon), except one of the nobles who prefers peace over warfare.
The Divine Weapon was released in South Korea on 4 September 2008, topping the box office on its opening weekend with 630,257 admissions. It led the box office for a further two weeks, and as of 9 November had accumulated a total of 3,749,611 admissions  As of 16 November, the film had grossed a total of $19,991,573. making it the seventh most popular domestic film that year.
The film has been criticized by Chinese audiences for alleged historical inaccuracies. For example, it is pointed out that Ming China and Choson Korea never fought and were in fact allies in resisting Japanese invasion in later times, that the tribute of virgins occurred under the Mongols, and asserted that the weapons depicted in the film were predated by similar weapons developed in China.
2008 Blue Dragon Film Awards
2009 Grand Bell Awards
2008 Korean Film Awards
South Korean-born filmmaker Yu-Jin Kim (A Promise) takes the helm for this epic historical  war drama detailing the invention of the first multi-launch rocket system. Created during the Joseon Dynasty (1392-1910), the revolutionary weapons system forever changed the face of combat by allowing armies to rain destruction down on their enemies with unprecedented ferocity. A century after the Sino-Korean conflict, China has grown increasingly hostile in its efforts to reign in the affairs of its small tributary state. As a result, Joseon King Sejong (Ahn Seong-gi) strives to protect his country's autonomy by allocating secret funding for the development of a highly sophisticated weapon. This responsibility is bestowed upon sleazy merchant Seol-ju (Jeong Jae-yeong), the son of a gunpowder maker from the fallen Goryeo Kingdom (918-1392). Not only does the merchant's lowly status make him the ideal candidate to head-up such a top-secret project, but his knowledge of explosives provides him with the knowledge to create a weapon that's capable of flying up to two kilometers and creating a crater up to thirty centimeters deep. When the Chinese government becomes suspicious and the original weapons designer takes his own life, his young daughter Hong-ri (Han Eung-jeong) is faced with the task of guarding a volatile national secret. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 134&nbsp;mins
