The Forgotten is a 2004 American psychological thriller film, directed by Joseph Ruben and starring Julianne Moore. Most of the movie was filmed in New York City.
The movie revolves around a woman who thinks that she lost her son in a plane crash 14 months ago, only to wake up one morning and be told that she never had a son. All of her memories are intact but with no physical evidence that contradicts the claims of her husband and psychiatrist, she sets out in search for solid evidence of her son's existence.
It was produced by Revolution Studios for Columbia Pictures and was released in the United States and Canada on September 24, 2004.
Telly Paretta (Julianne Moore) believes that her son, Sam, died fourteen months ago in a plane crash, but her husband Jim (Anthony Edwards) tells her that she's delusional and that they have never had a son. Dr. Munce (Gary Sinise) tells her that she's delusional and imagining a life that might have been. He recommends that she be sent to a hospital, but she runs away and meets with a man named Ash (Dominic West) who she thinks is the father of a girl who was friends with her son and died in the same crash. At first he dismisses her, claiming he never had a daughter, and calls the police. After she is taken into custody, however, he remembers his daughter and rescues Telly. Together they escape and go into hiding, pursued by National Security agents.
Telly and Ash capture an agent (Lee Tergesen), whom they threaten. The agent reluctantly reveals that he and other agents are merely helping "them" and that they do so to protect humankind. The roof of the house blows off and the agent, along with the roof, is sucked into the sky — presumably taken by "them"- and Telly and Ash flee. Eventually, Telly visits Dr. Munce again and he reveals that the disappearances are the work of "them," and that the government monitors their trials, all too aware that they have no power to stop "them" from doing whatever they want.
Doctor Munce takes Telly to an airport and the dilapidated hangar of Quest Airlines, where he introduces her to an agent of “them” (Linus Roache). He tells the agent that “It’s over,” and to stop the experiment because it will only cause more harm. The agent replies, saying “It’s not over,” and then tells Telly that she has been a part of an experiment to test whether the bonds between mother and child can be diminished. In her case, her memories could not be erased. Telly refuses to deny her son's existence. She is then shown a door and through it she sees her son playing with toys. She tries to cross the doorway, but is repelled by an invisible barrier. The agent mentions that if he fails to erase her memory then he will look like a failure. The agent then subdues her and finally succeeds in erasing her memories of her son. During further questioning, though, a question about the name of her son triggers Telly's memory of her pregnancy, and all of her memories of Sam return. This causes the agent to be "abducted" himself, supposedly for his failure to erase her memory. This ends the experiment.
Telly finds herself living a normal life, although she remembers everything that has happened. She reunites with Sam at a park. Also at the park is Ash, watching over his daughter. Like Sam, he has no memory of what has happened. Telly reintroduces herself, and the two sit and watch the kids play in the playground.
When the film was aired on basic cable the accident was changed, with all mentions of "plane" and "airport" dubbed to "bus" and "terminal".
Critics gave the film generally negative reviews. On the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, 31% of critics gave the film positive reviews, based on 166 reviews. On Metacritic, the film had an average score of 43 out of 100, based on 34 reviews.
The film opened September 24, 2004 in the United States and Canada and grossed $21 million in 3,104 theaters its opening weekend, ranking #1 at the box office.
The film cost $42 million to produce and it eventually grossed $67.1 million in the U.S. and Canada and $50.4 million in other territories, for a worldwide gross of $117.5 million.
When an experienced and staunchly religious U.S. Army enlistee is thrust into command of two tanks stranded deep inside enemy territory during the October 1950 invasion of North Korea, his faith - as well as his will to live - is put to the ultimate test. As U.N. forces breach the 38th Parallel, North Korean forces launch a devastating surprise attack on the unprepared invaders. As a result, the U.S. Army Tank Platoon is forced to retreat. Somehow, in the confusion and chaos of the melee, two tanks become separated from their company. Corporal William Byrne was among those unfortunate enough to become lost in hostile territory, and when the platoon's Sergeant is suddenly killed, the idealistic soldier is forced to take command. Later, the spirits of this desperate crew fast begin to darken, Corporal Byrne's will is pushed to the breaking point as a result of growing tension and a wounded North Korean POW. Now left with only his faith and his fading memories of a beautiful wife, the morphine-addled corporal leads the desperate crew of the Cowboy 2 on one last push to victory. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 91&nbsp;mins
