Letters from Iwo Jima (硫黄島からの手紙, Iōjima Kara no Tegami?) is a 2006 American War film directed and co-produced by Clint Eastwood, starring Ken Watanabe and Kazunari Ninomiya. The film portrays the Battle of Iwo Jima from the perspective of the Japanese soldiers and is a companion piece to Eastwood's Flags of Our Fathers, which depicts the same battle from the American viewpoint; the two films were shot back to back. Letters from Iwo Jima is almost entirely in Japanese, although it was produced by American companies Warner Bros. Pictures, DreamWorks Pictures, Malpaso Productions, and Amblin Entertainment. After the box office failure of Flags of Our Fathers, DreamWorks sold the United States distribution rights to Warner Bros., who had the international rights.
Letters from Iwo Jima was released in Japan on December 9, 2006 and received a limited release in the United States on December 20, 2006 in order to be eligible for consideration for the 79th Academy Awards. It was subsequently released in more areas of the U.S. on January 12, 2007, and was released in most states on January 19. An English-dubbed version of the film premiered on April 7, 2008. Upon release, the film garnered considerable acclaim and did much better at the box office than its companion.
In 2005, Japanese archaeologists explore tunnels on Iwo Jima, where they find something buried in the soil.
The film flashes back to Iwo Jima in 1944. Private First Class Saigo is grudgingly digging trenches on the beach. A teenage baker, Saigo has been conscripted into the Imperial Japanese Army despite his youth and his wife's pregnancy. Saigo complains to his friend Private Kashiwara that they should let the Americans have Iwo Jima. Overhearing them, an enraged Captain Tanida starts brutally beating them for "conspiring with unpatriotic words." At the same time, General Tadamichi Kuribayashi arrives to take command of the garrison and immediately begins an inspection of the island defenses.
Kuribayashi orders Captain Tanida to stop beating them, as they cannot afford to injure their own soldiers, and instructs him to deny lunch rations to Saigo and Kashiwara instead. After completing his inspection, Kuribayashi receives bad news from Lt. Col. Baron Takeichi Nishi, a friend and Olympic gold medalist show jumper. The Japanese Combined Fleet, upon which the island had been depending for support, has been destroyed in the Battle of Leyte Gulf. Disgusted, Kuribayashi tells Nishi, "Imperial Headquarters is not only deceiving the people, but us as well."
The next day, Kuribayashi orders the garrison to begin tunneling defenses under Mount Suribachi. He explains that the United States military will take the beaches quickly, and that only subterranean defenses have a chance for holding out. Kuribayashi's subordinate officers are outraged and regard these strategies as a betrayal of bushido. With Nishi's support, however, the tunnels began to be dug.
Poor nutrition and unsanitary conditions take their toll, and many soldiers die of dysentery, including Kashiwara. Kashiwara's replacement, Superior Private Shimizu, arrives for duty. Saigo is certain that Shimizu has been sent by the notorious military police, or Kempeitai, "to report on treasonous thoughts."
In February 1945, the first American air raids occur, causing significant casualties. A few days later, U.S. Marines land. Kuribayashi waits until the landing beach is filled with Marines and orders his men to open fire. The Marines suffer heavy casualties, but, as Kuribayashi predicted, the beach defenses are quickly overcome. The attack then turns to the tunnels below Mount Suribachi. While delivering a request to Colonel Adachi, Saigo overhears the Colonel pleading with Kuribayashi for permission to lead his men in a banzai charge. Kuribayashi refuses to permit this, however, and instead orders the Suribachi garrison to retreat to the north caves. Adachi, however, regards this as cowardice.
Ignoring the General's orders, Adachi orders his officers and men to commit suicide. Although Saigo explains Kuribayashi's orders to the contrary, Captain Tanida cuts him off, screaming, "Escape is the coward's way!" At Tanida's order, the soldiers of his unit detonate hand grenades against their stomachs. Captain Tanida too commits suicide by shooting himself in the head. Saigo, however, convinces Shimizu that they would better serve the Emperor by continuing to fight. Leaving the corpses of their comrades, they find two other soldiers, but one gets incinerated by a Marine with a flamethrower. They also witness a captured Marine being beaten and bayoneted to death as revenge for the burnings.
Saigo and the survivors of Mount Suribachi try to flee with Lieutenant Colonel Oiso at night, but they run into Marines, who wipe out all except Saigo and Shimizu. They report to Lieutenant Ito, a Navy officer and hardline believer in bushido, announcing that they have arrived from Suribachi. Ito screams, "You survived Suribachi? How dare you!" He raises his katana to summarily execute them, but Kuribayashi arrives and reprimands Ito for attempting to needlessly kill two soldiers. To Ito's horror, Kuribayashi confirms that he has given the order to retreat to the north caves. "Fight for your fallen brethren," he tells Ito, "until the end."
Calling Kuribayashi, "a weak American sympathizer," Ito plans a mass banzai charge against U.S. positions. When the Lieutenant demands his obedience, Col. Nishi, accuses Ito of needlessly jeopardizing the lives of his men. Nishi orders Ito to either obey Kuribayashi or hand over his command. Instead, Ito leads his men toward the American lines. Then however, he orders them to join Nishi. Ito then straps three land mines to himself and walks toward the battle zone, intending to throw himself under a tank.
The next morning, Okubo, Nishi's executive officer, shoots a Marine named Sam, who is subsequently captured. To the surprise of his men, Nishi orders them to use their scarce morphine to treat Sam's wounds. After Sam's death, Nishi finds a letter from the Marine's mother and reads it aloud in Japanese. The soldiers are moved by the letter, Shimizu no longer thinks of the Americans as savages.
Then, a shell hits the cave entrance and Nishi is blinded. He orders his men to regroup with Kuribayashi. As they depart, Nishi orders Lieutenant Okubo to leave him a rifle. Left alone, Nishi removes the bandage from his eyes and fingers and removes his boots to pull the trigger. Moments later, Okubo and the soldiers hear a gunshot as Nishi kills himself.
Saigo announces that he is going to surrender and dares Shimizu to denounce him. To his surprise, Shimizu reveals that he was dishonorably discharged from the Kempeitai after five days of service. He had refused to kill a family's dog for his commander, who was simply annoyed by its barking. Deeply moved, Saigo tells Shimizu, "at least now only the enemy hates you." Shimizu and Saigo plan to flee. Saigo suggests Shimizu pretend to have urgent need and leave first, then Saigo can follow. When Shimizu leaves, one soldier asks to go to surrender together, but are found out by Lieutenant Okubo who then shoots them. Fortunately, Shimizu survives and is able to surrender to a Marine patrol and finds himself with another Japanese POW. The American patrol moves on, leaving them guarded by two Marines. As Shimizu and his fellow POW discuss their plans for after the war, the two Marines grumble about having to guard them. Finally, one of the Marines summarily executes Shimizu and the other POW. The two bodies are found by Lieutenant Okubo, who cites them as a lesson against surrender. Weeping, Saigo wraps Shimizu's senninbari over his corpse.
Meanwhile, Lieutenant Ito, desperate and malnourished, breaks down and returns to the caves. When found by a Marine patrol, he surrenders without incident.
Later, Saigo and the rest of Okubo's patrol are forced to pass through a firefight while retreating to the north of the island. Several men, including Okubo, are killed in the process. They rendezvous with General Kuribayashi, who is impressed to learn that Saigo has come all the way from Mount Suribachi. Kuribayashi is amazed to learn that he has twice saved the Private's life, and then comments that things always come in threes. After gathering the rest of his men, the General orders Saigo to stay behind and burn all documents and letters during the final attack rather than join the fighting, thus saving his life a third time. Saigo, however, cannot bring himself to burn his comrades' letters to their families and buries them instead.
Attired as a common infantryman, Kuribayashi launches a final charge at the head of his surviving soldiers. The Marines and the Japanese engage in a fierce hand-to-hand battle to the death. Kuribayashi, however, is seriously wounded when shrapnel is lodged in his legs. Fujita, the general's loyal adjutant, drags him away from the battle as American reinforcements have come to finish off the rest of the Japanese forces.
By the next morning, the Japanese forces have been overrun, and the Americans have taken the rest of the island. Beginning to succumb to his wounds, Kuribayashi orders Fujita to behead him. As a weeping Fujita raises his katana, he is shot dead by a Marine sniper.
Private Saigo arrives and the dying General orders his last soldier to bury him where the enemy will never find his body. Then, Kuribayashi draws his M1911 pistol— a gift from an American officer friend before the war. He asks Saigo, "Is this still Japanese soil?" Saigo responds, "Yes, this is still Japan." The General fatally shoots himself and a weeping Saigo drags Kuribayashi's body away for burial.
Meanwhile, a Marine patrol find Fujita's body and a katana. The leader of the patrol, a Marine Lieutenant finds Kuribayashi's pistol and tucks it in his belt as a trophy. They search the area and find Saigo with his shovel. Seeing Kuribayashi's pistol in possession of the enemy, an enraged Saigo begins swinging his shovel at the Marines but is too weak to fight. However, the Lieutenant orders his men not to shoot him. Instead, he knocks Saigo out with a rifle butt and has him sent by stretcher to the POW camp. Awakening, Saigo glimpses the sun setting over the black sands of the beach and smiles grimly.
The film ends with the Japanese archaeologists finding the letters that Saigo had buried.
The film was originally entitled Red Sun, Black Sand. Although the film is set in Japan, it was filmed primarily in Barstow and Bakersfield in California. All Japanese cast except for Ken Watanabe were selected through auditions. Filming in California wrapped on April 8, and the cast and crew then headed back to the studio in Los Angeles for more scenes before Eastwood, Watanabe and a skeleton crew made a quick one-day trip to Iwo Jima for some on-location shots. Principal photography finished in late 2006.
The filmmakers had to be given special permission from the Tokyo Metropolitan Government to film on Iwo Jima, because more than 10,000 missing Japanese soldiers still rest under its soil. The Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force (JMSDF) operates a naval air base on Iwo Jima, which is used by the United States Navy for operations such as nighttime carrier landing practice. Civilian access to the island is restricted to those attending memorial services for fallen American Marines and Japanese soldiers.
The battleship USS&#160;Texas&#160;(BB-35), which was used in closeup shots of the fleet (for both movies) also participated in the actual attack on Iwo Jima. The only character to appear in both Flags of Our Fathers and Letters From Iwo Jima is Charles W. Lindberg, played by Alessandro Mastrobuono.
The film is based on the non-fiction books "Gyokusai sōshikikan" no etegami ("Picture letters from the Commander in Chief") by General Tadamichi Kuribayashi (portrayed on screen by Ken Watanabe) and So Sad To Fall In Battle: An Account of War by Kumiko Kakehashi about the Battle of Iwo Jima. While some characters such as Saigo are fictional, the overall battle as well as several of the commanders are based upon actual people and events.
Letters from Iwo Jima was released on DVD by Warner Home Video on May 22, 2007. It was also released on HD DVD and Blu-ray Disc. Furthermore it was made available for instant viewing with Netflix's "Watch Instantly" feature where available. The film was rereleased in 2010 as part of Clint Eastwood's tribute collection Clint Eastwood: 35 Films 35 Years at Warner Bros.. The Two-Disc Special Collector's Edition DVD is also available in a Five-Disc Commemorative Set, which also includes the Two-Disc Special Collector's Edition of Flags of Our Fathers and a bonus fifth disc containing History Channel's "Heroes of Iwo Jima" documentary and To the Shores of Iwo Jima, a documentary produced by the U.S. Navy and Marine Corps.
The English dubbed version DVD was released on June 1, 2010. This version was first aired on cable channel AMC on April 26, 2008.
The film was critically acclaimed, and well noted for its portrayal of good and evil on both sides of the battle. The critics heavily praised the writing, direction, cinematography and acting. The review tallying website Rotten Tomatoes reported that 178 out of the 195 reviews they tallied were positive for a score of 91% and a certification of "fresh." Lisa Schwartzbaum of Entertainment Weekly, Kenneth Turan of the Los Angeles Times, and Richard Schickel of Time were among many critics to name it the best picture of the year. In addition, Peter Travers of Rolling Stone and Michael Phillips of the Chicago Tribune both gave it four stars, and Todd McCarthy of Variety praised the film, assigning it a rare 'A' rating.
On December 6, 2006, the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures named Letters from Iwo Jima the best film of 2006. On December 10, 2006, the Los Angeles Film Critics Association named Letters from Iwo Jima Best Picture of 2006. Furthermore, Clint Eastwood was runner-up for directing honors. In addition, the American Film Institute named it one of the 10 best films of 2006. It was also named Best Film in a Foreign Language on January 15 during the Golden Globe Awards. It had been nominated for Best Film in a Foreign Language; and Clint Eastwood held a nomination for Best Director.
CNN's Tom Charity in his review described Letters from Iwo Jima as "the only American movie of the year I won't hesitate to call a masterpiece." On the "Best Films of the Year 2006" broadcast (December 31, 2006) of the television show Ebert & Roeper, Richard Roeper listed the film at #3 and guest critic A. O. Scott listed it at #1, claiming that the film was "close to perfect." Roger Ebert awarded the film a perfect score (4 out of 4 stars) and raved about it as well. James Berardinelli awarded a 3 out of 4 star review, concluding with that although both 'Letters' and 'Flags' were imperfect but interesting, 'Letters from Iwo Jima' was more focused, strong and straightforward than its companion piece.
On January 23, 2007, the film received four Academy Award nominations. Eastwood was nominated for his directing, as well as Best Picture along with producers Steven Spielberg and Robert Lorenz. It was also nominated for Best Original Screenplay. The film took home one award, Best Sound Editing.
The film also appeared on many critics' top ten lists of the best films of 2006.
The film was far more commercially successful in Japan than in the U.S., ranking number&#160;1 for five weeks, and receiving a warm reception from both Japanese audiences and critics. The Japanese critics noted that Clint Eastwood presented Kuribayashi as "caring, erudite commander of Japan's Iwo Jima garrison, along with Japanese soldiers in general, in a sensitive, respectful way."  Also, the Japanese newspaper Asahi Shinbun noted that the movie is clearly "distinguishable" from previous Hollywood movies, which tended to portray Japanese characters with non-Japanese actors (e.g., Chinese-Americans, and other Asian-Americans). Consequently, incorrect Japanese grammar and accents were conspicuous in those former films, jarring their realism for the Japanese audience. However, most Japanese roles in 'Letters from Iwo Jima' are played by native Japanese actors. Also, the article praised the film's new approach, as it is scripted with excellent research into Japanese society at that time. According to the article, previous Hollywood movies describing Japan were based on the stereotypical images of Japanese society, which looked "weird" to native Japanese audiences. Letters from Iwo Jima is remarkable as the movie tries to escape from the stereotypes. Owing to the lack of stereotypes, Letters from Iwo Jima was appreciated by Japanese critics and audiences.
Since the movie was successful in Japan, it has been also reported that there has been a tourist boom on the island of Iwo Jima.
Several non-U.S. reviews, such as that of the Independent of the United Kingdom, took offense at the characterization of good officers as solely those having had experience in the U.S. Those viewers believed that these characteristics make it an American film presenting a vision of the Japanese that reflects American cultural values and perceptions, in stark contrast to its framing in the American press as a film in the "Japanese point of view".
Despite rave reviews, the film only grossed $13.7 million domestically in the United States. Foreign sales of $54.9 million helped to boost revenue over production costs of $19 million.
General top ten
After bringing the story of the American soldiers who fought in the battle of Iwo Jima to the screen in his film Flags of Our Fathers, Clint Eastwood offers an equally thoughtful portrait of the Japanese forces who held the island for 36 days in this military drama. In 1945, World War II was in its last stages, and U.S. forces were planning to take on the Japanese on a small island known as Iwo Jima. While the island was mostly rock and volcanoes, it was of key strategic value and Japan's leaders saw the island as the final opportunity to prevent an Allied invasion. Lt. General Tadamichi Kuribayashi (Ken Watanabe) was put in charge of the forces on Iwo Jima; Kuribayashi had spent time in the United States and was not eager to take on the American army, but he also understood his opponents in a way his superiors did not, and devised an unusual strategy of digging tunnels and deep foxholes that allowed his troops a tactical advantage over the invading soldiers. While Kuribayashi's strategy alienated some older officers, it impressed Baron Nishi (Tsuyoshi Ihara), the son of a wealthy family who had also studied America firsthand as an athlete at the 1932 Olympics. As Kuribayashi and his men dig in for a battle they are not certain they can win -- and most have been told they will not survive -- their story is told both by watching their actions and through the letters they write home to their loved ones, letters that in many cases would not be delivered until long after they were dead. Among the soldiers manning Japan's last line of defense are Saigo (Kazunari Ninomiya), a baker sent to Iwo Jima only days before his wife was to give birth; Shimizu (Ryo Kase), who was sent to Iwo Jima after washing out in the military police; and Lieutenant Ito (Shidou Nakamura), who has embraced the notion of "Death Before Surrender" with particular ferocity. Filmed in Japanese with a primarily Japanese cast, Letters From Iwo Jima was shot in tandem with Flags of Our Fathers, and the two films were released within two months of one another. ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 140&nbsp;mins
