Small Apartments is a 2012 American comedy film directed by Jonas Åkerlund. It tells the story of Franklin Franklin, played by Matt Lucas, who by mistake kills his landlord, played by Peter Stormare. The cast co-stars Dolph Lundgren, Johnny Knoxville, James Caan, Billy Crystal, Juno Temple, Rebel Wilson, Saffron Burrows and Amanda Plummer. The screenplay was written by Chris Millis and adapted from his own novella. The film premiered at the South by Southwest Film Festival on March 10, 2012.
Franklin Franklin, a hairless eccentric obsessed with Switzerland, lives alone in an apartment complex populated with other eccentrics, including drug-addled Tommy Balls, grouchy old Mr. Allspice, and the young Simone across the way who Franklin sometimes watches thru binoculars. Before the film begins, Franklin has accidentally killed his landlord, Mr. Olivetti during a rent argument. In an effort to get rid of the body, he takes it back to Olivetti's house and tries to stage it as a suicide, including setting it on fire which he quickly extinguishes. Getting rid of Olivetti's truck leads to Franklin being assaulted in a vacant lot, and robbed of a watch his brother gave him; the thugs also steal the truck.
The next day, Franklin discovers his brother Bernard, who was self-committed to a hospital some time ago, has died of an inoperable brain tumor, that he did not tell Franklin about. Among Bernard's effects is an envelope holding a key; the key is to a locker containing a recorded message revealing that Bernard stole from his employer and has left Bernard a large sum of money in a Swiss bank account and a passport in a new identity. Meanwhile, fire investigator Burt Walnut, visiting the apartment complex, talks to Franklin's neighbors and becomes suspicious of Franklin.
At his convenience store job, Tommy Balls argues with Simone; upset, she hides in the bathroom. The thugs who beat up Franklin rob the store and accidentally shoot Tommy in the gut before running away. Simone comforts Tommy as he dies. Franklin returns moments later but, seeing the police, keeps going, abandoning his dog to Burt Walnut. Shortly after, Walnut and the other detectives discover Mr. Allspice has committed suicide, and then learn the two thugs have been caught with the truck. Franklin calls Mr. Allspice to ask that he look after his dog, but is told by Walnut about the suicide and the arrest.
In the epilogue, Walnut has now taken custody of the dog and Franklin travels to Switzerland.
The film was produced through Deep Sky, Silver Nitrate, Amuse Entertainment and Bonnie Timmerman. It was co-financed by Sense And Sensibility Ventures and Silver Nitrate. According to director Jonas Åkerlund, it was important for him that the production had a strong element of spontaneity; he therefore did not focus solely on the film like he had with his previous features, but also made 34 commercials and five music videos the same year. Small Apartments was made largely with the same crew Åkerlund uses in his other projects. The first actor to be cast was Matt Lucas in the lead. Photography took 20 days and ended in April 2011.
The film premiered at the South by Southwest Film Festival on March 10, 2012. It was released in the United States on February 8, 2013, in select theaters (via Tugg.com) and February 19th on DVD, Blu-ray Disc & On Demand.
John DeFore of The Hollywood Reporter wrote that "Small Apartments might crumble if not cemented by a compellingly weird performance by Little Britain's Matt Lucas", and that "even the scene-chewingest performance here (Peter Stormare as the sleazoid landlord, seen in flashback) augments the whole instead of drawing attention from it". DeFore also complimented Billy Crystal, writing that his performance "roots the picture to its ostensible genre while reminding us how engaging the actor can be when he's appearing not to try. "
A misfit dreamer trapped in a cramped L.A. apartment complex finds his grotesque reality intruding on his fantasies of moving to Switzerland in this off-beat comedy with a killer cast. Every time Franklin Franklin (Matt Lucas) blows his alphorn, his mind drifts to serine visions of the Alps. But Franklin's urban reality couldn't be any more different from his picturesque daydreams; from the pot-head in the next apartment (Johnny Knoxville) to their nosy neighbor (James Caan), to the oddball mother and daughter (Juno Temple) who live next door, there's never a moment of peace in the overcrowded building he calls home. As if all of this wasn't enough to break Franklin's spirit, his obnoxious brother Bernard (James Marsden) continues to send him fingernail clippings in the mail. It all comes to a head when Franklin finds himself saddled with his landlord Mr. Olivetti's corpse. Desperate to erase any evidence of a crime, the flighty outcast follows his talking dog's advice and tries to make it look like a suicide, leading to a series of darkly comic complications involving a fire investigator (Billy Crystal) who smells foul play. Dolph Lundgren, Rebel Wilson, David Koechner, Amanda Plummer, Rosie Perez, and DJ Qualls co-star. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Small Apartments Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 96&nbsp;mins
