Safety Not Guaranteed is a 2012 American comedy film inspired by a 1997 Backwoods Home Magazine classified ad – written as a joke filler by Backwoods employee John Silveira – by a person asking for someone to accompany him in time travel. It was screened at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival where it won the Waldo Salt Screenwriting Award.
Darius Britt (Aubrey Plaza) is a disillusioned college graduate who lives at home with her widower father (Jeff Garlin) and interns at Seattle Magazine. One of the magazine's writers, Jeff Schwensen (Jake Johnson), proposes to investigate a newspaper classified ad that reads:
Jeff's story idea is approved by his boss, Bridget (Mary Lynn Rajskub). Jeff selects Darius and Arnau (Karan Soni), a studious biology major interning at the magazine to diversify his resume, to assist him. They travel to the seaside community of Ocean View to find and profile the person behind the ad. Jeff later reveals an ulterior motive for this assignment: to track down a long-lost love interest who lives in the beach community.
Darius discovers that the person behind the ad is Kenneth Calloway (Mark Duplass), a stock clerk at a local grocery store. Jeff's attempt to contact Kenneth alienates Kenneth, so Jeff orders Darius to make contact. Darius' disaffected attitude serves her well, and she quickly endears herself to Kenneth as she poses as a candidate to accompany him on his mission. While Kenneth is paranoid and believes that "secret agents" are tracking his every move, Darius gains his trust as she participates in a series of training exercises in the woods around his house and begins to develop feelings for him. She tells Kenneth about the death of her mother when she was young and that her mission is to prevent it. Kenneth says his mission is to go back to 2001 and prevent the death of his old girlfriend Belinda (Kristen Bell) who was killed when someone drove a car into her house.
Meanwhile, Jeff tracks down Liz (Jenica Bergere), his fling from his teenage years; although she is not as attractive as his memories of her younger self, they reconnect. He asks her to come back with him to Seattle, but she believes this is just another fling for Jeff, so she refuses. Upset by her rejection, Jeff takes Arnau out on the town, and they pick up some young women. Jeff tells Arnau to not waste his youth and convinces him to spend the night with one of the young women.
The next morning, Jeff receives a phone call from Bridget, who has been following the notes on the story; she informs him that Belinda is still alive. During an interview with Belinda, Darius learns Belinda was only friends with Kenneth and that Kenneth had driven into her then-boyfriend's house, but no one was injured. After the interview, Darius is questioned by two government agents who have been following Kenneth and believe that he may be a spy because of his communication with government scientists.
Darius returns to Kenneth's house to confront him about Belinda. Kenneth claims, if Belinda is alive, that means his time traveling must have worked. Jeff then comes in to warn them that the government agents are also on the property. Kenneth panics and runs into the woods. Darius follows him and finds Kenneth has boarded his time machine, which is a boat. Darius apologizes for lying to Kenneth, tells him everything else they shared was real, and joins him on the time machine. Kenneth tells Darius that his mission has been updated, saying he now wants to go back for her. As Jeff, Arnau, and the two government agents watch, Kenneth activates the time machine and it disappears, along with him and Darius.
The film was shot in Seattle and Ocean Shores, Washington, and other locations within 130 miles of Seattle. It is also partially set in Seattle. The film was shot on the Sony F3 using old Panavision lenses, which gave the film a desired "Hal Ashby look" for director Colin Trevorrow. Production budget was reported by The Film Collaborative to be $750,000.
 Safety Not Guaranteed received critical acclaim with a 91% approval from 135 critics on Rotten Tomatoes—an average score of 7.6 out of 10—where the consensus reads: "Safety Not Guaranteed's ostensibly modest ambitions are outmatched by the movie's strong performances, beguiling charm, and heartfelt story." Metacritic gives the film a rating of 72/100 based on reviews from 31 critics, indicating generally favorable reviews.
Stephen Holden of The New York Times wrote that the story's shenanigans are "harnessed to a plaintive underlying theme about the fading dreams of those aspiring professionals in their 20s and 30s." Roger Ebert praises the film for the quality of the dialogue, characters with depth and dimension, as well as Mark Duplass for his balanced performance.

A personal ad placed for a time-travel partner prompts an investigation involving three magazine reporters in this quirky comedy produced by Mark and Jay Duplass (Jeff, Who Lives at Home) and starring Aubrey Plaza (Parks and Recreation). Kenneth is a self-proclaimed time traveler who doesn't want to take his next journey alone. Intrigued by Kenneth's cryptic ad, a local newspaper editor dispatches cynical reporter Darius (Plaza) and a pair of other employees to get the scoop. Upon meeting Kenneth, Darius see past his peculiar front and recognizes the lonely soul inside. As genuine as Kenneth may be, however, his questionable sanity leaves Darius uncertain of how to proceed with her story. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Safety Not Guaranteed Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 86&nbsp;mins
