Pitch Perfect is a 2012 American musical comedy film directed by Jason Moore. The screenplay was written by Kay Cannon. The musical comedy features an ensemble cast consisting of Anna Kendrick, Skylar Astin, Rebel Wilson, Anna Camp, Brittany Snow, Ester Dean, Alexis Knapp, Hana Mae Lee, Ben Platt, Adam DeVine, with John Michael Higgins, and Elizabeth Banks. The plot follows an all girl college a cappella group, The Barden Bellas, as they compete against another a cappella group from their college to win Nationals. The film is loosely adapted from Mickey Rapkin's non-fiction novel, also titled Pitch Perfect. Filming concluded in Mid-December 2011, in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
The film premiered in Los Angeles on September 24, 2012. Released on September 28, 2012 in the United States, Pitch Perfect grossed over $65 million domestically and $45 million internationally, as well as peaking at #3 at the box office. The film became the second highest grossing musical comedy film behind School of Rock.
The film was also met with positive reviews from critics, receiving an 81% positive rating on the review website Rotten Tomatoes based on 135 reviews. It was mostly praised by critics for its comedic approach, its flashy musical numbers, and the performance of Wilson.
Beca Mitchell (Anna Kendrick), a newly arrived freshman at Barden University, has no desire in attending college, though she is forced to attend by her father (John Benjamin Hickey), a professor at the university. Wishing to instead move to Los Angeles to pursue a career in music making, Beca takes up an internship at the school radio station, where she meets fellow freshman Jesse Swanson (Skylar Astin), who develops a not-so-secret crush on her. When Beca's father discovers she has not been attending classes, he comes to her with a proposition: if she joins a club and still does not want to remain at college, he will allow and pay for Beca to move to Los Angeles. After some persuasion from group leader Aubrey Posen (Anna Camp) and Chloe Beale (Brittany Snow), she joins the all-girl a cappella group Barden Bellas, joining alongside a group of other women who do not fit the Bellas' typical mold: the misunderstood Cynthia-Rose (Ester Dean), the sexually driven Stacie Conrad (Alexis Knapp), the awkwardly quiet Lilly Onakuramara (Hana Mae Lee), who speaks inaudibly, and the irresponsible and eccentric Fat Amy (Rebel Wilson).
At group rehearsal, Aubrey's controlling nature gets on the nerves of the other girls, especially Beca. She is constantly critical and insists that they use the same set list the Bellas have been using for years, which clashes with Beca's original style. Meanwhile, Beca hangs out with Jesse, who has joined the Treblemakers, the Bellas' main rival. Aubrey warns the group not to have any sexual contact with the Treblemakers, or they'll be forced to leave the Bellas. Beca plays several of her own mixes of contemporary songs for him, and he compliments her for her talent. After learning that Beca doesn't like movies, never even making it through a movie from beginning to end because she loses interest, Jesse tries to get Beca to watch the ending of The Breakfast Club, one of his favorite movies.
Meanwhile, the Bellas attempt to put aside their issues and participate in the Southeastern regional competition at Carolina University. In spite of their distasteful set list, the group manages to place second at the regional a cappella competition, which gives them the bid to semi-finals. On their way to the semi-finals, however, the group stops for gas where Fat Amy is hit with a burrito by Bumper Allen (Adam DeVine), the leader of the Treblemakers, as they drive past in their own bus. After the other girls clean her up, they continue on their way but run out of gas, as Fat Amy had forgotten to actually pump gas into the bus after getting hit with the burrito. They are then forced to call the Treblemakers to drive them to the venue, which then leads to some smack talk during the car ride there.
Once at the semi-finals, Beca notices how bored the audience is with Aubrey's traditional and overused arrangement, so she provides impromptu back-up, La Roux's "Bulletproof." The Bellas come in third in the competition behind the Treblemakers and the Footnotes; even though the audience seemed to enjoy Beca's remix, Aubrey becomes furious and yells at Beca, who quits the group after yelling at both Aubrey and Jesse. When the Footnotes are disqualified after the discovery that their lead singer was still in high school, the Barden Bellas are called to Nationals in their place. The Bellas get back together after returning from spring break, with the notable exception of Beca.
During this time, Beca begins working as a DJ at the Barden radio station, playing her music on the overnight shift while also steadily distancing herself from Jesse. Upon finding a copy of The Breakfast Club and watching it in its entirety, however, she realizes how much she needs the Bellas and Jesse in her life. Her father convinces her to rejoin the Bellas, whom she finds falling apart during rehearsal. After having a heart-to-heart in which they revealed secrets about themselves, the Bellas appoint Beca as their group leader and decide to adopt Beca's more modern music style. Meanwhile, Bumper leaves the Treblemakers after being offered a job as a back-up singer for John Mayer. With Nationals approaching and the group short a member, Jesse becomes the new group leader and persuades the Trebles to allow Benji (Ben Platt) to join the group in Bumper's place.
At the a cappella national competition at Lincoln Center, the Bellas sing a piece arranged by Beca. Once their performance is over, Beca reunites with Jesse with a kiss. Fast forward to six months later, auditions are beginning for the new year and the Treblemakers and the Bellas are preparing to select new members for their groups; Jesse and Benji are shown sitting at a desk in the auditions hall, followed by Beca and the Barden Bellas, along with their trophy from Nationals.
The film is based on Mickey Rapkin's non-fiction novel Pitch Perfect. Rapkin, senior editor at GQ magazine, spent a season covering competitive collegiate a cappella. He followed the Tufts University Beelzebubs, the University of Oregon Divisi (the loose inspiration for the Bellas), and the University of Virginia Hullabahoos (who have a cameo in the film), writing about the singing, groupies, partying and rivalries. Two members of the a cappella community, Ed Boyer and Deke Sharon, both in Rapkin's book, were brought on board to arrange songs, produce vocals and act as on-site music directors. The film was shot throughout campus and inside buildings at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Elizabeth Banks is a co-producer and a co-star in the film.
The casting department included Justin Coulter, Rich Delia, Allison Estrin, and Michael Roth. The film stars Anna Kendrick, Anna Camp, and Brittany Snow. Producer Elizabeth Banks appears throughout the film alongside John Michael Higgins as commentators for the competitions.
Paul Brooks stated “First and foremost, we were looking for actors who had comedic instincts and thought we’d get lucky with terrific actors who happened to be funny and can actually dance and maybe sing. It turns out we did get lucky with our cast!” According to producer Elizabeth Banks, “The character Beca required someone who was grounded, who has a strong point of view on the world, who is funny and empathetic and someone who we can all relate to and root for." Of Kendrick she said, "Anna is all those things, and there was no other choice for the movie.” Fellow producer Brooks said "I saw Anna in Up in the Air and thought it was the most exquisite, elegant, balanced, sublime performance. Anna was our first choice for the role of Beca." When casting the character of Jesse, Max Handelman said "We were looking for a young John Cusack-type guy. We needed to find someone who was kind of awkward but not a geek, but not so cool that you’re not rooting for him." Skylar Astin was chosen for the role. Of Astin's audition, Banks said the chemistry between Skylar and Anna when they read together prior to shooting was "clear and they were able to riff off each other."
Rebel Wilson was recognized for her performance in the comedy film Bridesmaids upon auditioning for the role of Fat Amy, which she won instantly. Moore recalled Wilson singing Lady Gaga's "The Edge of Glory" while beating "on her chest with her fists". He said, "I didn't even hear the end of the song because I was laughing so hard. There’s this beautiful openness to the way Rebel approaches everything, and that’s what works great for the character. She’s fearless". Adam DeVine was personally chosen by Banks and Handelman for the role of Bumper after they saw him on the television series Workaholics. Banks confessed that she and her husband are "big Workaholics fans" and after watching one night during the film's casting, they saw DeVine and "immediately thought" he would be a good choice for Bumper. However, he declined because he wasn't a singer. However, DeVine eventually surprised Banks and Handelman with his vocal skills. Anna Camp was chosen for the role of Aubrey. Producer Max Handelman said, "Elizabeth and I were huge fans of Anna’s from True Blood. Aubrey is set up as the antagonist for Beca, and Beca’s already a bit hard-edged, so it was so important to find an actress who could play Aubrey as someone who could marshal the crazy but also was sympathetic." Which is the top selling in 2012
The world premiere of Pitch Perfect took place on September 24, 2012 in Los Angeles, California. Pitch Perfect has earned $64,666,000 (63.5%) in the United States, and a further $37,200,000 (36.5%) elsewhere, for a worldwide box office gross of $101,866,000 since release. The film opened to limited release in the United States and Canada on September 28, 2012 and wide release in the United States and Canada on October 5, 2012. It grossed $1,755,935 upon its opening day of limited release and $4,889,050 on its wide release. In its opening weekend the film opened at number 3 behind Taken 2 and Hotel Transylvania grossing $14,846,830 million. The opening weekend audience was 81 percent female, which is considered overwhelming. The opening weekend also attracted a younger audience with 55 percent of the opening weekend audience being under the age of 25. The film has become the second highest grossing Music Comedy film behind School of Rock ($81.2M). It is also the seventh highest grossing college comedy film behind Road Trip (68.5M). Pitch Perfect was released on Blu-ray and DVD on December 18, 2012
Pitch Perfect received generally positive reviews. It received an 81% "Fresh" rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 124 reviews as well as 65 out of 100 on Metacritic based on 30 "generally favorable reviews". The film was mostly praised for its comedic approach, which some critics have compared to Bring It On, as well as the film's flashy musical numbers and Rebel Wilson's performance. NPR's David Edelstein selected it as one of the top movies of the year and Entertainment Weekly chose the soundtrack as one of the year's best.
Producer Paul Brooks and director Jason Moore told Variety that since the reception to the film was good, a sequel could potentially happen next year. In December 2012, Skylar Astin revealed that he and Rebel Wilson had meetings with Universal Studios about the potential sequel.
A feisty coed joins a collegiate a cappella group and upgrades their song selection for the 21st century during the run-up to a major competition in this melodic comedy from Tony-nominated Avenue Q director Jason Moore. Drifting past the various cliques after arriving at college, Beca (Anna Kendrick) pays more attention to the jams pumping in her headphones than the people she passes on her way to class. But all that changes the moment she stumbles into the one place where every misfit has a voice -- the campus a cappella group. Although the competition amongst the singers proves surprisingly fierce, there's just one aspect of the group Beca can't wrap her head around: All of the songs they perform are at least a decade old. Convinced that they can do better by adding some contemporary tunes into the mix, Beca whips up an exciting new set list that will set the group apart and leave their rivals in the dust. Brittany Snow, Anna Camp, and Rebel Wilson co-star. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Pitch Perfect Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 112&nbsp;mins
