Think Like a Man is a 2012 ensemble American romantic comedy film directed by Tim Story, written by Keith Marryman and David A. Newman, and based on Steve Harvey's 2009 book Act like a Lady, Think like a Man. The film was released on April 20, 2012 by Screen Gems Pictures.
The film follows four storylines about each of the couples, titled:
Each of the women are readers of Steve Harvey's book Act Like a Lady, Think Like a Man. When the men learn the women are hooked on Harvey's advice, they try to turn the tables on their mates, which later seems to backfire.
Six professional basketball players made cameo appearances as themselves:
The film received generally mixed reviews. At film review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a "mixed" rating of 54%, based on 81 reviews and an average rating of 5.6/10, with the critical consensus saying, "In Think Like a Man, an otherwise standard rom-com is partially elevated by a committed—and attractive—cast, resulting in a funny take on modern romance". The film also holds a score of 51 on the website Metacritic, based on 30 reviews, indicating "mixed or average reviews".
Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times viewed that a major problem with the film is that it takes seriously the advice given in the book it is based upon, commenting that such an approach "might have worked as a screwball comedy or a satire, but can you believe for a moment in characters naive enough to actually live their lives following Steve Harvey's advice? The result is a tiresome exercise that circles at great length through various prefabricated stories defined by the advice each couple needs (or doesn't need)." However, Ebert called the cast "superb" noting in particular the performances of Meagan Good and Kevin Hart. Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly also complimented Good and Hart's performance, as well as Romany Malco's performance. He ultimately gave the film a "B-" grade, writing that it is "so busy tracking courtship as if it were a science project that the bite-size love stories lack spontaneity." In a positive review, Michael Phillips of the Chicago Tribune commended the film for "stick to a formula without falling prey to it" and commented that "its hangout factor is considerable, because the actors' charms are considerable."
Think Like a Man grossed over $33.7 million during its opening weekend, an accomplishment which ended The Hunger Games' four-week run at the #1 spot at the U.S. box office. The romantic comedy film remained on top of the competition during its second week as well, bringing in $17.6 million.
As of June 24, 2012, Think Like a Man has earned $95,326,341 in both the United States and Canada, along with $3,779,136 in other countries, for a worldwide total of $99,105,477. The movie's production budget was $12.5 million.
The film's soundtrack includes songs by Kelly Rowland, Jennifer Hudson, Keri Hilson, John Legend and Future.
On June 28, 2012 Screen Gems announced plans for a sequel to be made of the film, with Keith Merryman and David A. Newman also writing its script. No director, title, nor release date has been given.
This adaptation of Steve Harvey's non-fiction relationship advice book Act Like a Lady, Think Like a Man focuses on six friends who regularly get together to play basketball, and usually are commiserating about women issues. Jeremy (Jerry Ferrara) is a geeky pothead and comic-book obsessive whose career is stuck in neutral and who won't pop the question to his girlfriend of nine years. Zeke (Romany Malco) is a former musician-turned-businessman who is great at picking up the ladies but can't commit to a long-term relationship. Michael (Terrence J) is good looking and charming, but his mother still has him wrapped around her finger and doesn't want to let him go. Dominic (Michael Ealy) keeps changing career goals, and while he's an excellent chef, he hasn't found a way to make it pay. And short, motormouthed Cedric (Kevin Hart) is in the midst of a divorce and can't wait to be free of his wife. Nerdy but well-meaning Bennett (Gary Owen) is the only one in a functioning relationship, and he gets a lot of grief from his buddies for his happy marriage. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All Think Like a Man Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 122&nbsp;mins
