Fun Size is a 2012 American teen comedy film written by Max Werner and directed by Josh Schwartz. It stars Victoria Justice, Jane Levy, Thomas McDonell, Thomas Mann, and Chelsea Handler. It was produced by Nickelodeon Movies, Anonymous Content, and Fake Empire Productions and distributed by Paramount Pictures. It was the second time a Nickelodeon film received a PG-13 rating, since Angus, Thongs and Perfect Snogging, which was released straight-to-DVD in the US. However, it is the studio's first American and theatrically released film with that rating.
In Cleveland, Ohio, Wren DeSantis (Victoria Justice) and her friend April (Jane Levy) are invited to a Halloween party by her crush, Aaron Riley (Thomas McDonell), but she is also ordered by her widowed mother, Joy (Chelsea Handler) to take her oddball brother Albert with her when he goes out trick-or-treating on Halloween. When she loses him in a haunted house, she must find him before her mother finds out.
In January 2011 it was announced that Josh Schwartz would direct the film as his feature film directorial debut. By the spring of 2011, the lead role had been offered to Victoria Justice, and Jane Levy had entered talks for her role in the film, with Paramount announcing initial plans for the project to be shot in Minnesota. The location was changed to Michigan and later to Cleveland, Ohio. In June 2011, Chelsea Handler entered negotiations.
Inclement weather delayed the start of principal filming until early 2012. The film was released on October 26, 2012.
Director Josh Schwartz discounted Internet claims that he was playing a convenience-store clerk. "No," he said shortly before the movie opened. "I get asked about it a lot, but that's an IMDb mistake. There are convenience-store clerks in the movie — just none played by me!"
The trailer was released on June 28, 2012. The movie is rated PG-13 for "crude and suggestive content, partying, and language" from the Motion Picture Association of America.
Fun Size was released on DVD and Blu-ray on February 19, 2013.
Fun Size opened at #10, earning $4.1 million over the first weekend at 3,014 theaters and averaging about $1,361 per venue. The film was a failure at the box office, only earning $10,911,519 and also is the lowest wide released grossing film from Nickelodeon Movies.
Fun Size has received negative reviews from critics, with several criticizing the adult humor and sexual content despite the film's Nickelodeon pedigree. It currently holds a 27% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 64 reviews with the consensus stating: "It occasionally shows surprising flashes of wit, but Fun Size is too safe and formulaic -- not to mention unfunny -- to survive comparisons to the 80s teen movies it eagerly imitates." Michael Phillips of the Chicago Tribune gave the film a zero star (out of five) rating, comparing it negatively to the somewhat similar Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist and criticizing Justice's sarcastic reading of her lines and the film's dependence on child molestation as a device for laughs.
Adam Graham of Detroit News gave this film a score of C and said that "it feels like a project that was pitched for the CW but watered down for Nickelodeon audiences. In the end, everyone loses."
Jen Chaney of Washington Post gave this film a score of 1/4, calling it "a 90-minute theatrical release from Nickelodeon Productions that, if anything, should have aired as a half-hour Nickelodeon special."
David Martindale of Dallas Morning News gave this film a C+, saying "like a 'fun size' chocolate bar, it's just empty calories. It's a momentary pleasure, instantly forgotten."
On the positive side, Sheri Linden of The Hollywood Reporter enjoyed this film and wrote, "Though it doesn't always hit the hilarity target, this tween-targeted romp strikes a sweet-but-not-sappy balance."
A high-school senior loses her little brother while trick-or-treating, and recruits three of her classmates to help bring him back home before her mother finds out in this teen comedy from first-time director Josh Schwartz (executive producer of TV's Chuck and Gossip Girl). Sardonic Wren (Victoria Justice) hails from an unusually dysfunctional family. She can't wait until she escapes to college and leaves them all behind, but in the meantime, an invitation to the biggest Halloween party in the area at least offers her an excuse to get out of the house for a night. But when Wren is placed on babysitting duty so her mother can dash out and party with her handsome young boy toy, the dejected teen reluctantly takes her little brother Albert out for a night of trick-or-treating. Later, when Albert vanishes into a sea of costumed kids, his panicked sister enlists the help of her best friend April, wannabe womanizer Peng, and his charmingly geeky pal Roosevelt to track down her missing brother, and get him safely back home while their mother remains none the wiser. Meanwhile, over the course of one wild and unpredictable Halloween night, the group's frantic search lands them in some pretty outlandish situations, and provides Roosevelt with the perfect opportunity to impress his longtime crush Wren. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Fun Size Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 86&nbsp;mins
