The_Flat
Released Year: 2011
Running time: 98
Director: Arnon Goldfinger
Cast: 
Content: In the wake of his 98-year-old Jewish grandmother's passing, filmmaker Arnon Goldfinger commences the arduous process of cleaning out the Tel Aviv flat she lived in for 70 years, and makes a shocking discovery that sends him on a revealing journey into his complex family history. When the Nazis seized power in Germany, Goldfinger's grandparents Gerda and Kurt Tuchler fled to Tel Aviv. There, the couple led a rich life, and continued to grow a family. Decades later, after they've both passed away, Goldfinger and his family are cleaning out the flat when they find Nazi propaganda that seems to link his grandparents to a mysterious SS officer. Subsequently determined to learn the truth behind his family's connection to the enemy, Goldfinger begins an incredible journey into the past that reveals how the most profound truths can sometimes be swept under the rug for the sake of sheltering the ones we love most. 
Wiki info: 
The Flat (Hebrew: הדירה) is a 2011 Israeli feature documentary film written and directed by Arnon Goldfinger. It was theatrically released in Israel in September 2011. It played continuously for thirteen months and has received good reviews. Time Out Tel Aviv chose to place the film at the top of its recommended films for 49 weeks under the headline: “not to be missed” and chose it as one of the 25 most important art works from around the world for 2011. The Flat was theatrically released in Germany in June 2012. The German version of the film features the voice of renowned German actor Axel Milberg taking on the role of narrator Arnon Goldfinger. 'The Flat' was theatrically released in USA in October 2012.
The film won the 2012 Best Editing in a Documentary Feature Award in the Tribeca Film Festival World Documentary Competition. It was the opening film at Dok Munich in 2012.
The film opens as the director and members of his family are gathered in the apartment of his mother's mother,Gerda Tuchler, a short while after her death, to clear out the contents. His grandmother lived in the same apartment for 70 years; ever since she and her husband, Kurt, left Nazi Germany in the 1930s and emigrated to Palestine.
It is not long, however, before Goldfinger finds various items in his grandmother's house that reveal an astonishing chapter in the family's history - a chapter that had been kept under wraps for decades.
Goldfinger gradually discovers that his grandparents had a close personal relationship with a high Nazi official, Leopold von Mildenstein, who had headed the SS office for Jewish affairs prior to Adolph Eichmann. Mildenstein had traveled to Palestine in the company of the Tuchlers in the 1930s, and kept in touch with them after the war.
After his grandmother’s death Arnon Goldfinger began, all alone, to film the clearing out of his grandmother’s flat. By chance Goldfinger met cinematographer Talya (Tulik ) Galon, who lives not far from his grandmother's flat, and told her about the flat. She helped with the cinematography (Philip Bellaiche entered the production later on). They filmed the family rummaging through closets, the items with their old-fashioned European flavor that were pulled out one after another - and the dozens of garbage bags that filled up quickly. But Goldfinger and the others did not know exactly what they were looking for. And then it happened: Suddenly among the cartons of gloves and shoes, the fox furs and the purses, the books and the boxes with letters - a pile of old German newspapers appeared. Goldfinger did not imagine that this would be the first clue that would lead him on an emotional journey that would be both upsetting and confusing, and that would reveal a family history that for years had been repressed and hidden. At that point the research broadened and new characters emerged, unexpected ones. The crew expanded until the point that the film became a German-Israeli coproduction with Zero One Film coming on board as co-producers.
Goldfinger worked for five years till finishing the film that is being supported by New Israeli Foundation for Cinema and Television, Filmforderungsanstalt, Medienboard Berlin-Brandenburg, Deutscher Filmforderfonds with ARTE, ZDF, SWR, Noga Communications- Channel 8.
The Flat had its premiere at the Jerusalem Film Festival in July 2011. The film was screened in 35mm and in the review following the screening, film critic Avner Shavit called The Flat "one of the best Israeli documentaries ever made". He added that "one of the most exciting documents on the Shoah. The audience at the theater yesterday were overwhelmed by the experience".
Both screenings during the festival were sold out and quite a few critics claimed that The Flat was the best Israeli film at the festival. The film won the prize for best director of a documentary film at the Jerusalem Film Festival, with the jury reasoning: “This is a beautifully composed film about uncomfortable truths and the challenge of confronting them. Mr. Goldfinger undertakes expert research and leads us through his findings in a way that is not only gentle and sensitive, but also compelling and creative".
A month and half later, in September 2011, the film was theatrically released. At first the film was only screened twice a week in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. All of these screenings were sold out. On the heels of this success it was decided to expand the release to additional parts of the country. The Flat has been playing continuously for eight months and has become the third most viewed Israeli film of 2011. In his review in the leading Israeli newspaper Yediot Achronot, film critic Yehuda Stav gave the film 5 stars and said the following: "Arnon Goldfinger's spellbinding work The Flat is one of the most intriguing and important documentary films made in Israel in the last decade. This is not only because of its unbelievable subject matter, but because of its meticulous weaving, it's artistry of filmmaking and above all because of the complexity of issues that are addressed and the deep emotional impact they have on the viewer."

