No_Tomorrow
Released Year: 2009
Running time: 86
Director: Roger Weisberg
Cast: 
Content: In 2004, filmmakers Roger Weisberg and Vanessa Roth produced and directed the documentary Aging Out, which focused on a handful of teenagers who had spent years in the foster care system without being adopted and faced the prospect of becoming legal adults without a family. One of the people profiled in the film was Risa Bejarano, who had been in the California foster care system since she was nine. Less than a year after Aging Out was completed, Bejarano was shot and killed by Juan Jose Chavez, who took her life so she could not testify in an upcoming murder trial. After Chavez was found guilty of Bejarano's murder, the prosecution screened Aging Out during the penalty phase of the trial in hopes the jury would be more inclined to sentence Chavez to death. Filmmakers Weisberg and Roth found their work brought into an argument about the death penalty in California, and in No Tomorrow the same filmmakers examine Bejarano's murder, Chavez's blighted personal history, the way in which the state of California used Aging Out in the courtroom, and the reactions of the defense, the prosecution and the jury to the penalty phase and its outcome. No Tomorrow was an official selection at the 2010 Cinequest Film Festival. 
Wiki info: 
No Tomorrow is a 1999 film directed by Master P and starring Master P, Pam Grier and Gary Busey. It was released direct-to-video on October 19, 1999 by No Limit Films. Kickboxer, Gary Daniels co-stars.
Maker (Master P), a hip-hop music mogul and crime boss, helps broker a deal between Noah (Gary Busey), a major dealer in illegal arms, and a consortium of extremist groups. However, Maker was cut out of the loop at the last minute and he's eager to get revenge—and his piece of the action. He initially uses Davis (Jeff Fahey), an employee of a shipping company, to send his merchandise around the world, but when the company upgrades to computer-based tracking, he brings in Jason (Gary Daniels), a digital-savvy workaholic trying to wipe out the memory of his first wife. Jason earns a big cut of Davis' profits, and is introduced to his world of fast times and loose women, including Laura (Jodi Bianca Wise), a sweet but streetwise hooker. Unknown to the others, FBI Agent Diane (Pam Grier) is watching Noah's deal in order to put him and his crew behind bars, but she doesn't realize that several of the players have hidden agendas.A major arms deal is going down, and 3 separate characters are desperately trying to get in on it. Each is either a true career criminal, out for personal profit or an undercover agent, intercepting to elevate a CV. Everyone is playing each other off against one another.


