Film_Socialisme
Released Year: 2010
Running time: 101
Director: Jean-Paul Battaggia
Cast: Catherine Tanvier&#160;,Christian Sinniger&#160;,Jean-Marc Stehle&#160;,Olga Riazanova&#160;,Élisabeth Vitali&#160;,Eye Haidara&#160;,Patti Smith&#160;,Nadège Beausson-Diagne&#160;,Alain Badiou&#160;,Robert Maloubier&#160;,Agatha Couture,Maurice Sarfati,Lenny Kaye,Bernard Maris,Elias Sanbar,
Content: One of cinema's greatest provocateurs, Jean-Luc Godard, presents another barbed but thoughtful meditation on culture, politics and cinema in this experimental drama. Shot using high-definition video equipment and a consumer-grade cell phone, with the crisp images of the former playing off the grain and distortion of the latter, Film Socialisme is divided into three segments. The first takes place on a luxury liner cruising the Mediterranean, as tourists from different lands attempt to communicate in their different languages. In the second, a French family calls a private tribunal, as the children challenge their parents on the issues of Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity while the media watches from outside. And, finally, Godard and his crew visit six different places -- Barcelona, Egypt, Naples, Odessa, Palestine, and "Hellas" (the latter could be Greece or France) -- as he confronts issues of truth versus myth and where the global community is headed. While Film Socialisme features dialogue in a number of different languages, the English-language subtitles which appear in the film deliberately confuse matters by being made up of statements which bear no relation to what is being said onscreen, and usually have a provocative political undercurrent. Film Socialisme received its world premiere at the 2010 Cannes Film Festival; to the displeasure of some distributors, it was made available though Video on Demand the day after its debut screening. 
Wiki info: 
Film Socialisme (2010), alternative French title Socialisme, English: Socialism but often referred to as Film Socialism, is a film directed by Jean-Luc Godard.
The film was first screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 2010 Cannes Film Festival, to a widely varying reception, and released in France two days later, on 19 May 2010. It screened at the 48th New York Film Festival in 2010, the 27th film that Godard has shown at the festival.
According to the synopsis on the film's official website, the film is composed of three movements:
The cruise ship is the Costa Concordia, sailing around the Mediterranean Sea. This ship was wrecked in real life in January 2012.
Principal photography began in 2008, and the film was originally scheduled for a 10 January 2010 release, but an extended post-production delayed its release. Most of the film was shot around the Mediterranean Sea.
The film is Godard's first in HD video and the 16:9 aspect ratio, as well as his first in several decades not be photographed with an intended aspect ratio of 4:3. Though Godard was one of the first major directors to shoot and edit on video, and has incorporated video footage and editing into most of his work since the mid-1970s, this is the first theatrical release from him to be shot entirely in a digital format. As with many of his films, Godard's partner Anne-Marie Mieville worked on the film, other people credited as collaborators being Fabrice Aragno and Louma Sanbar, who also have worked with Godard before.

