Videocracy
Released Year: 2009
Running time: 85
Director: Erik Gandini
Cast: 
Content: Filmmaker Erik Gandini examines the twisted nexus of politics and junk culture that informs Italian television in this documentary. Silvio Berlusconi is the prime minister of Italy; he also owns and operates a private television outlet, Mediaset, as well as overseeing operations at RAI, Italy's state-run television network. As a result, Berlusconi has a hand in 90 percent of all television outlets currently broadcasting in the country. So to what degree is the prime minister responsible for the current state of Italian television, in which semi-nude women are a constant presence and intelligent political commentary is all but impossible to find? Videocracy ponders Berlusconi's place in the current Italian media environment, as well as profiling three characters who reflect the nation's cultural status quo. Ricky Canevali is a half-bright but handsome would-be pop star who is hoping his good looks and charisma will win out over his lack of talent in the eyes of the public. Lele Mora is a highly successful television agent who can help make anyone a star; he's also a close friend of Berlusconi who openly admires the leader, comparing him to another celebrated Italian politician, Benito Mussolini. And Fabrizio Corona is Italy's most celebrated paparazzo, an amoral celebrity photographer who is willing to sell his pictures to the highest bidder -- which is sometimes the stars themselves. Videocracy was an official selection at the 2009 Venice International Film Festival, where it was screened as part of the Critics Week program. 
Wiki info: 
Videocracy is a 2009 documentary film directed by Swedish-Italian Erik Gandini about Italian television and its impact on Italian culture and politics, and about Silvio Berlusconi's powerful position in these. Erik Gandini coined the phrase The Evilness of Banality to describe the cultural phenomenon of Berlusconismo. Thus making a word play on Hanna Arendt's Banality of Evil.
Soon after its theatrical premiere in Sweden, the film was shown at the 66th Venice International Film Festival where it gained massive attention. The trailer for the film has been banned by most Italian television broadcasters.
Videocracy uses the theme tune to Silvio Berlusconi's presidential campaign and now party theme, Meno male che Silvio c'è! (loosely translated as Thank God for Silvio!). When first hearing it Videocracy's director Erik Gandini thought it was satire.
Videocracy has won awards at Toronto Film Festival, Sheffield DocFest, the Golden Graal awards and the Tempo Documentary Award 2010. Videocracy has been widely distributed internationally, released theatrically in the USA, UK, Holland, France, Poland, Sweden among other. In Italy where it opened in 90 theaters across the country on the weekend of September 4, 2009, Videocracy became 4th in the Box Office rankings.
The veline phenomenon is explained. We meet young mechanic Ricky who tries to become a TV star, but complains that it is more difficult for a man. TV agent Lele Mora admiringly says that Berlusconi resembles Benito Mussolini. Paparazzo Fabrizio Corona takes embarrassing photographs of celebrities, and asks them for money to not publicize them. He explains that he is a new version of Robin Hood: he steals from the rich, but keeps the money to himself. When he was convicted for extortion, it made him a greater celebrity, and he is now cashing in on this. He is shown full-frontally naked taking a shower.

