Soundless Wind Chime (Chinese: 無聲風鈴; pinyin: Wúshēng fēng líng) is a 2009 independent film directed by Hung Wing Kit (Chinese: 洪榮杰), starring Lu Yu Lai and Bernhard Bulling. It was a 2009 Nominee for the Berlin International Film Festival's Teddy Award.
Soundless Wind Chime centers around a new immigrant to Hong Kong from China, Ricky (Lu Yu Lai), who works as a delivery boy while living with his prostitute aunt (Wella Zhang). He is pickpocketed by a Swiss thief, Pascal (Bernhard Bulling) who is in an abusive relationship with his con artist boyfriend (Hannes Lindenblatt). Deciding to leave him, Pascal has a chance encounter with Ricky and the two begin a romantic relationship. The couple struggles through good times and bad, forcing them to determine if their relationship is based on love or dependence on one another. Several years later, Ricky searches Switzerland for signs of Pascal, eventually encountering Ueli (also played by Bulling), a timid antique store owner who looks the same as Pascal, but who has a vastly different personality. As Ricky and Ueli's relationship deepens, the truth of Pascal and Ricky's relationship is unraveled as the film progresses through glimpses of the present and the past.
In the Turin GLBT international Film Festival, Italy, the film has won the Audience Award, Nuovi sguardi (Best New Director), and a Special Jury Mention for Best Feature Film in Competition.
This film has also won the Best Direction, and Best Actor (Lu Yulai) awards in the 13th LesGaiCineMad - Madrid International Gay & Lesbian Film Festival 2009
In Canada, Soundless Wind Chime has won the best international festure in the Vancouver Queer Film Festival, and the Jury Award For Best Feature Film in the Image+Nation Festival Cinema LGBT Montreal.
The film was featured in the 59th Annual Berlin International Film Festival and was an official nominee for the 2009 "Teddy Award."
The film features an original score produced by Claudio Puntin and Insa Rudolph performed by Sepiasonic and also contains music by artist Justin McGrath as well as the song "Achoo Cha Cha" by classic Chinese singer and actress Grace Chang.
A man who has finally found the love he's been looking for discovers happiness doesn't always last in this independent drama. Ricky (Lu Yulai) leaves his home in Beijing to start a new life in Hong Kong, but the transition is rough; he has trouble getting work and has to live with his aunt (Wella Zhang), an abusive woman who makes her living as a prostitute. One evening, Ricky is wandering the streets when he meets Pascal (Bernhard Bulling), a Swiss expatriate who works as a street performer and is struck in a combative relationship with a petty criminal. Ricky and Pascal discover they have a lot in common, and soon they've fallen in love and are sharing an apartment. However, Ricky is shattered when Pascal unexpectedly dies, and as he tries to make sense of his loss, he travels to Switzerland and meets a man named Ueli (als played by Bernhard Bulling) who is a dead ringer for Pascal. The first feature film from director Kit Hung, Soundless Wind Chime was an official selection at the 2009 San Francisco International LGBT Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 107&nbsp;mins
