Purple Violets is a relationship comedy written and directed by Edward Burns. It is an independent film, set in lower Manhattan, about four friends from college ready for change. It features Burns, Selma Blair, Patrick Wilson, and Debra Messing.
Patti Petalson (Selma Blair) is a promising writer, but her marriage and conventional job keep her from her dream. She longs to return to her writing, especially after running into her first love Brian Callahan (Patrick Wilson), a successful crime novelist. Kate (Debra Messing) is Patti's best friend since college. She's a tough-talking schoolteacher who plays therapist to all Patti's problems, while she's got a few of her own.
Despite Brian's gorgeous Tribeca loft and perfect house in the Hamptons, he longs to write works of greater literary value. Michael Murphy (Edward Burns), his lawyer and best friend from college still carries a flame for his former girlfriend Kate, even though their relationship ended badly years ago. She holds a major grudge, but he would go to any length just to win Kate back, knowing his feelings for her never went away. He tried to forget over the years but since he spotted Kate in the restaurant she was all he could think about.
When Patti sells Murphy a new apartment, and Brian publishes his personal novel, these old friends reconnect in unexpected ways with surprising results.
Purple Violets' soundtrack includes mainly songs by the Alternative rock band "The Blue Jackets" including the ballads "Do you Remember" and "You Send Shivers" played during the final scene and credits.
Purple Violets became noteworthy for being the first feature film to debut on the iTunes Store. It was released on November 20, 2007 and costs $14.99. The movie was exclusive to Apple Inc. for one month after release. Subsequently, Purple Violets was released on DVD through the Weinstein Company.
An unhappy woman finds new love with her old boyfriend in this romantic comedy-drama from writer and director Edward Burns. Patti Selma Blair) is a woman in her early thirties living in New York City. For years, Patti chased after her dream of becoming a successful novelist, but recently she's had to put writing on hold and is unhappily working in real estate. Patti's ennui isn't helped by the fact her marriage has fallen into a rut and neither she nor her husband are interested in one another anymore. When she was in college, Patti was in love with Brian (Patrick Wilson), and while Brian is fortunate enough to support himself writing crime fiction, he's smarting from the uncharitable reviews given to his latest and most personal work. One night, Patti is having dinner with her best friend Kate (Debra Messing) when she bumps into Brian, who is out with his friend Murph (Edward Burns), who in turn used to be involved with Kate. As the former lovers talk about their past and where life has taken them, Patti finds herself falling for Brian all over again, but both she and Brian are still dealing with the differences and insecurities that drove them apart years before. Purple Violets received its world premiere at the 2007 Tribeca Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 107&nbsp;mins
