The Genesis Code is a 2010 American drama film directed by C. Thomas Howell and Patrick Read Johnson, and written by Michael W. Leighton.
Kerry Wells (Kelsey Sanders), a college student journalist and committed Christian has been assigned to do a story on Blake Truman (Logan Bartholomew) the college's hockey superstar. Blake struggles with personal crisis but rejects Kerry's reliance on her faith. He is convinced that modern science has disproved the Bible and especially the Genesis story of creation. Together they discover that the creation story and science may be in perfect accord.
The Genesis Code takes on three current social and cultural issues: Evolution vs. creation, End-of-life decisions and discrimination against Christians on the college campus. Though this becomes a romance story, it gives a look to the age old question of how science and a book of the Bible, Genesis, may both be correct and told in a format that a normal layperson will understand.
The first director, Patrick Read Johnson was fired and C. Thomas Howell was brought in to finish the film. Director Guild of America rules require that Johnson be given a shared credit. The film was shot in Grand Rapids, Michigan and Lowell, Michigan.
The Genesis Code premiered in the United States on 25 August 2010 as part of the Grand Rapids Film Festival.
The film was released on home video on 6 March 2012 in North America.
This religious drama stars Kelsey Sanders as Kerry Wells, a college student and aspiring journalist who also happens to be a Born Again Christian. She strikes up a budding romance with fellow undergrad Blake Truman (Logan Bartholomew), a collegiate hockey superstar and one of the most popular men on campus. As the two grow ever closer, however, Kerry learns that Blake is still reeling from a painful secret in his past. When Kerry suggests that Blake pray and ask God to relieve his emotional burdens, Blake - an atheist - scoffs at the suggestion, insisting that the miracles of modern science disprove the validity of the Bible. Meanwhile, Kerry finds her faith challenged from another source, and decides to weigh scientific discoveries against the account of creation in Genesis - with surprising results. ~ Nathan Southern, RoviSee All The Genesis Code Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 138&nbsp;mins
