Love and Pain And The Whole Damn Thing is a 1973 American film directed by Alan J. Pakula. It is often categorized as a drama, but contains many comic elements.
Walter Elbertson is a young, shy asthmatic who lacks direction in his life and the confidence to tackle his future. His father, in an effort to instill some spirit into his son, sends him on a biking holiday in Spain. Walter goes to Spain but finds the bike riding torturous to his asthma and lags behind the rest of the group. Meanwhile, Lila Fisher is touring Spain by bus. She too is awkward with people and keeps to herself, and looks uncomfortable when a Spaniard tries to woo her with bird noises.
Soon the two tours coincide and, seeing the bus about to depart, Walter decides he has had enough of the bike tour and joins the bus tour. He ends up alongside Lila on the rear bus seat, and is wheezing terribly from the ordeal of running for the bus.
The two begin spending time together out of necessity, but neither seems particularly confident in the growing relationship, Lila particularly. However, their similar dispositions soon bring them closer and they move past their fear and consummate their relationship. Their relationship does not always run smoothly, as both show intermittent doubt of the other's loyalty. They have fights which, as they resolve and they are compelled to make pledges of their commitment to one another, increase their intimacy, and strengthen their bond.
They eventually decide to leave the bus tour behind and Walter organises a small caravan to take them around the country. At one point, they meet The Duke, who lives in a large Spanish castle, and seems to be very taken with Lila. This awakens the fever of jealousy in Walter, and for the first time he acts with strength and resolve to keep her with him.
The film ends with Lila, who has shown signs of illness at various points in the film, confessing to Walter that she has not long to live. The two determine, with Walter as the main instigator, to spend the days remaining to her travelling, free and following their hearts, together.
Also known as The Widower (a working title in the U.S.)
Filmed in 1971 under the title The Widower, Love and Pain and the Whole Damn Thing finally reached the screen in 1973. Set in Spain, the film stars Timothy Bottoms as the aimless son of doctor Charles Baxter. While bicycling through the Spanish countryside, Charles makes the acquaintance of much-older Lila (Maggie Smith.) He falls in love with her, but she is resistant. Eventually touched by Charles' clumsy sincerity, Lila invites him to bed. The film then wanders into Love Story territory when Lila is afflicted by a terminal illness. Director Alan J. Pakula completed Love and Pain and the Whole Damn Thing during the "cooling off" period between his more famous Klute (1971) and The Parallax View (1974). ~ Hal Erickson, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 110&nbsp;mins
