Bobby Deerfield is a 1977 American romantic drama film directed by Sidney Pollack and starring Al Pacino and Marthe Keller. Based on the 1961 novel Heaven Has No Favorites by Erich Maria Remarque, the film is about a famous American race car driver on the European circuit who falls in love with an enigmatic Swiss woman who is terminally ill. For his performance in the film, Al Pacino was nominated for a Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture Actor.
Formula One auto racer Bobby Deerfield is a calculating, control-obsessed loner who has become used to winning the checkered flag on the track. But after he witnesses a fiery crash that kills a teammate and seriously wounds a competitor, Deerfield becomes unsettled by the spectre of death.
During a visit to the survivor, Deerfield's world is further set askew when he meets Lillian Morelli (Marthe Keller), a quirky, impulsive woman racing against time.
Critics panned Bobby Deerfield as an over-the-top melodrama with a plodding story line; audiences reportedly laughed at scenes intended to be dramatic.
Race-film fans, expecting another Grand Prix or Le Mans, were disappointed that the story did not play out on the race track; however, the action footage was filmed by racing cinematographers over the course of the 1976 Formula One season and features actual drivers, including Carlos Pace, James Hunt, Patrick Depailler and Mario Andretti.
Bobby Deerfield was released on DVD for the first time on March 11, 2008. The soundtrack, recorded on the benighted Casablanca Records label, has been unavailable for years.
Remarque's novel on which the screenplay is based is far different from the movie, taking place just after World War II.
The Swiss town of Leukerbad makes no mention of the on-location filming that took place there.
Starring Al Pacino and directed by Sydney Pollack, Bobby Deerfield stars Pacino plays the title character, a reckless race car driver. As his fame grows, Bobby becomes increasingly full of himself, which seriously jeopardizes his performance on the track and his private life. Marthe Keller plays Bobby's aristocratic, enigmatic lady friend, whose tragic secret sets the stage for melodrama. Also on hand is Ann Duperey as a racetrack groupie. Originally released at 124 minutes, Bobby Deerfield was pared down to 99 minutes by director Pollack for cable-TV consumption. ~ Hal Erickson, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 124&nbsp;mins
