December Bride is an American sitcom that aired on the CBS television network from 1954 to 1959, adapted from the original CBS radio network series that aired from June 1952 through September 1953.
December Bride centered around the adventures of Lily Ruskin, a spry widow played by Spring Byington, who was not in fact a "December" (rather old) bride but very much desired to become one if the right man would come along. Aiding Lily in her search for this prospective suitor were her daughter, Ruth Henshaw, played by Frances Rafferty, and her son-in-law Matt Henshaw, portrayed by Dean Miller, and her close friend and peer, Hilda Crocker, the role of character actress Verna Felton. A next door neighbor, Pete Porter, played by Harry Morgan, was frequently seen. Married miserably himself, according to his constant complaints about his unseen wife, Gladys, he also envied Matt's positive relationship with Lily, as he despised his own mother-in-law.
First-run episodes of December Bride aired for five seasons, beginning in 1954 and ending in 1959, sponsored by General Foods' Instant Maxwell House Coffee. During the first four seasons, the program was not shown in the summer, supplanted by "summer replacement" series, but in its final year, repeat episodes were run in its time slot during the summer months. On March 26, 1959, as the program wound down, Rory Calhoun, star of CBS's western series, The Texan appeared as himself in the episode "Rory Calhoun, The Texan".
December Bride was sufficiently popular that even after its production had ceased, CBS used repeat episodes to fill slots in its prime time programming. In July 1960, December Bride repeats were used to fill in for the second half of the Friday 9 p.m. Eastern timeslot vacated by Westinghouse Desilu Playhouse, running until the beginning of the fall 1960 schedule, and again as a temporary replacement on Thursday nights in April 1961. Additionally, repeats of the program were shown on CBS as a daytime program from October 1959 until March 1961. The Pete Porter character became so popular that he and Gladys were spun off into their own series, Pete and Gladys, shortly after the end the broadcast of first-run episodes of December Bride.
Script Supervisor was DaLonne Cooper

This 19th century period drama set in Northern Ireland tells the story of Sarah (Saskia Reeves), a young woman born into poor circumstances in a devoutly Presbyterian family. Sarah and her mother Martha (Brenda Bruce) are hired to work as housekeepers by a widowed farmer, Mr. Echlin (Geoffrey Golden), who raises potatoes and sheep with his two sons, Frank (Ciaran Hinds) and Hamilton (Donal McCann). When Mr. Echlin dies in a boating accident, Martha leaves the farm and returns to her cottage, but Sarah stays behind, opting to work for Frank and Hamilton on her own terms, and takes both brothers as lovers. In time, Sarah becomes pregnant, but, despite the local scandal, she refuses to name the father and opts to raise the child on her own so that her family name will live on. Director Thaddeus O'Sullivan won the Silver Rosa Camuna Award at the 1990 Bergamo (Italy) Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 85&nbsp;mins
