Flirting with Forty is a 2008 Lifetime movie, starring Heather Locklear and Robert Buckley. The movie premiered on December 6, 2008.
The movie focuses on a 40-year old mother named Jackie (Locklear) who goes to Hawaii for her 40th birthday and meets a young male surfing instructor named Kyle (Buckley). The two flirt and Kyle teaches Jackie how to surf. Complications develop because the two are living in different parts of the world.
Jackie Laurens (Heather Locklear) is a recently divorced, 40-year-old and mother of two pre-teen kids who takes a vacation alone to Hawaii where, against her better judgment, she meets and hooks up with a hunky, much younger resident surf instructor named Kyle Hamilton (Robert Buckley). But what began as a one-night stand turns into love as when her vacation is done, she flies to Hawaii every chance she gets to meet with her latest love interest, which soon gets disapproval from her ex-husband, her teenage kids, and even her close friends. As time and the pressure from everyone around her to break it off with Kyle pushes Jackie to her breaking point, it will only take her beau Kyle to teach her how to cope before life passes her by.

A recently divorced mother of two attempts to regain her footing in life after falling for a hunky young surf instructor while vacationing alone in Hawaii. Her marriage dissolved on the eve of her fortieth birthday, Jackie (Heather Locklear) heads to Hawaii to celebrate the landmark solo. There, she reluctantly becomes swept up in a sun-soaked romance with resident surf instructor Kyle Hamilton (Robert Buckley). Sensing that their relationship is more than just a one night stand, Jackie soon begins booking flights to Hawaii every chance she gets, despite the disapproval of her friends and her ex-husband. But Jackie is losing balance, and with a little help from her younger lover she soon discovers that forty is just the beginning. Based on the semi-autobiographical best seller by author Jane Porter. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 87&nbsp;mins
