The Gang's All Here is a 1943 American Twentieth Century Fox Technicolor musical film starring Alice Faye, James Ellison, and Carmen Miranda in a story about a soldier and a nightclub singer. The film, directed and choreographed by Busby Berkeley, is considered a camp classic. One reviewer described it as "like a male hairdresser's acid trip" for its use of musical numbers with fruit hats.
Musical highlights include Carmen Miranda performing an insinuating, witty version of "You Discover You're in New York" that lampoons fads, fashions, and wartime shortages of the time. The film is also memorable for Miranda's "The Lady in the Tutti Frutti Hat", which because of its sexual innuendo (dozens of scantily clad women handling very large bananas), prevented the film from being shown in Miranda's native Portugal in its initial release. Even in the US the censors dictated that the chorus girls must hold the bananas at the waist and not at the hip. Alice Faye sings "A Journey to a Star," "No Love, No Nothin'," and the surreal finale "The Polka-Dot Polka."
The film was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Art Direction-Interior Decoration, Color (James Basevi, Joseph C. Wright, Thomas Little). It was the last musical Faye made as a Hollywood superstar. She was pregnant with her second daughter during filming.
The film follows the typical "boy-meets-girl" formula of musical comedy. A young soldier, Sgt. Andy Mason (James Ellison) meets Eadie Allen (Alice Faye), a New York City nightclub singer. The two fall in love. Unbeknownst to Eadie, Andy is unofficially engaged to long-time friend Vivian Potter (Sheila Ryan). Andy goes to war and returns a hero. His father (Eugene Pallette) arranges to have Eadie and her fellow nightclub performers (Carmen Miranda, Benny Goodman, Phil Baker, and dancer Tony DeMarco) appear in a war-bond drive at the estate of Vivian's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Peyton Potter (Charlotte Greenwood and Edward Everett Horton). It is during rehearsals that Eadie learns the truth about Andy's relationship with Vivian. The clouds vanish and the lovers unite when Vivian decides she wants a career as a dancer rather than marriage. The film ends with everyone living happily ever after.
Noted drummer Louie Bellson appears uncredited in the Benny Goodman Orchestra while Carmen Miranda sings "Paducah".
Fox released the film on a digitally remastered DVD in February 2007 as part of "The Alice Faye Collection." This DVD was criticized for its faded color reproduction that subdued the original vibrant Technicolor hues. The film was released on DVD a second time in June 2008 as part of Fox's "The Carmen Miranda Collection." The 2008 DVD release contained a brighter and more colorful transfer. A laserdisc version was released in 1997 by Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment but was quickly pulled and is now a highly valued collector's item. Privately made copies in all formats are circulated among collectors. The film is occasionally shown on American television.
Sgt. Andy Mason Jr. (James Ellison) is on the eve of shipping out from New York with his unit -- he's the son of Andrew Mason Sr. (Eugene Pallette), a wealthy, blustery Wall Street financier. While paying respects to his father and the latter's business partner, dithering fuss-budget Peyton Potter (Edward Everett Horton), at the Club New Yorker, he spots chorus girl Eadie Allen (Alice Faye) and turns on the charm and all of the allure that the ne'er-do-well son of a Wall Street millionaire can muster. That, however, doesn't impress Eadie, who ignores his invitation so she can do her patriotic bit helping servicemen at the Stage Door Canteen (or, as it's called here, the "Broadway Canteen"). Realizing how down to earth and genuine she is -- exactly the kind of girl who doesn't care about his money or social position -- Andy shows a bit of the boyish innocence he has hidden beneath the arrogance that comes from his background of wealth and privilege, and also some humility, hiding that background and his real name. Before the night and their "date" on the Staten Island Ferry are over, they're genuinely in love with each other, but that presents a problem -- since age 12, Andy has been unofficially "engaged" to Potter's daughter Vivian (Sheila Ryan), who expects to marry him, and he can't quite bring himself to hurt Vivian by telling her that he's met someone else. Flash forward a few months, and Andy is on his way home on leave, a hero in the Pacific, and his father is so proud that he has to do something special to honor him, trying to rent out the Club New Yorker for a party but discovering that it's closed for rehearsals of a new production. Suddenly, his fatherly devotion, patriotism, and Wall Street experience all click together -- he brings the entire performing company, plus Benny Goodman's band, up to his and Potter's adjoining estates in Westchester to stage their act for his upscale neighbors and friends as part of the biggest War Bond rally ever seen (minimum admission a new 5,000-dollar War Bond), and in the process giving his son the biggest party he's ever seen. This leads to more comic turns for Horton's Potter, as a man who would make coffee nervous -- especially around show people -- but delights his ex-dancer wife (Charlotte Greenwood). That's also how Eadie and Vivian end up at the Potter mansion together, comparing notes on their remarkably similar respective fiancés. When the show's star, Dorita (Carmen Miranda), lets the cat out of the bag, it looks like Andy may lose Eadie, who can't bear to lose Andy but also won't even try to take him away from Vivian, who loves him too, but has loved him a lot longer. But while they sort out their romance, the show must go on, and go on it does. ~ Bruce Eder, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 103&nbsp;mins
