Federico Castelluccio (born April 29, 1964) is an Italian-American actor and professional visual artist, who is best known for his role as Furio Giunta on the HBO TV series, The Sopranos.
Born in Naples, Italy, his family moved to Paterson, New Jersey in 1968. In 1982, Castelluccio was awarded a full scholarship to the School of Visual Arts in New York City, where he earned a BFA in painting and media arts. Just prior to winning the scholarship, Federico received an opportunity to do a painting for veteran actor George Burns.
Castelluccio began his career as an actor in 1986. Some of his film credits include Made with Jon Favreau, Fire with Robert Klein and Diary of a Hitman with Danny Aiello. In television, Federico's credits include NYPD Blue and his best known role in the HBO hit series, The Sopranos, as the Neapolitan enforcer Furio Giunta.
He also appeared in A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints which debuted in 2006 at the Sundance Film Festival and received two awards, one for best dramatic directing and another for best dramatic ensemble, headed by Robert Downey Jr., Chazz Palminteri, and Rosario Dawson.
Castelluccio’s recent film projects include the biographical El Cantante starring Marc Anthony and Jennifer Lopez, Aftermath, a crime-thriller starring Michael Anthony Hall, Chris Penn and directed and written by Thomas Farone, The Obscure Brother, filmed in southern Italy, a short film that Federico executive produced and acted in. Federico starred with David Zayas and Otto Sanchez in 2003's La Araña directed and written by Vincent Zambrano and Jose Patino. Capers, a comedic film, was released in 2008 and stars Danny Masterson. Lucky Days is a full-feature film that recently completed filming in New York City. The 2009 film Forget Me Not, directed by Federico, starring Yvonne Maria Schaefer, had international success. In television, Federico was recently seen as the lead role in Dragon Dynasty, a made for television film which aired on the Sci-Fi Channel. He also appeared in the episode of Kenny vs. Spenny titled "Who Can Produce The Best Commercial" in a role strongly echoing his work on The Sopranos as Furio.
Castelluccio is an internationally renowned painter, art collector and connoisseur of old master, baroque paintings. From an early age it was evident that Federico had talent and innate ability for drawing and painting and was determined to pursue a life in art. In 1982, he received a full presidential scholarship to the School of Visual Arts, in New York City, earning a BFA in painting and media arts.
Castelluccio has traveled extensively to Europe for the sole purpose of drawing and painting. He has spend time working in France, Italy and Germany, inspired all along by the European old masters and contemporary realists, Castelluccio's focus has been mainly on painting the figure and still life as well as trompe l'oeil and landscape. He works strictly from life and has drawn praise for his paintings and for his exceptional quality and high level of technical ability.
Castelluccio's paintings have been exhibited in prestigious galleries throughout the United States and Europe. His works are held in the collection of Palazzo Chigi, in Ariccia, Italy Yale University Museum of Art, in New Haven, Connecticut, Kresge Art Museum, in East Lansing, Michigan and Tisch Fine Art Collection, NY. His works can be found in major private collections throughout the United States, South America and Europe. In addition many well known actors and celebrities own Federico's original work, including Whoopi Goldberg, Caroline Rhea and Joe Pantoliano, to name a few. During the fourth season of Celebrity Apprentice, Castelluccio was asked by Donald Trump to judge which celebrity designed the best hat. Castelluccio eventually chose La Toya Jackson. She was awarded $25,000 for her charity, the AIDS Project Los Angeles.
In 2008, Castelluccio began a romantic relationship with actress Yvonne Maria Schaefer when they met at a premiere in New York City.
Fate brings together two strangers but they may not stay together in this romantic drama from the UK. Will Fletcher (Tobias Menzies) is a talented but struggling musician who is playing a pub gig one evening when he meets Eve Fisher (Genevieve O'Reilly), a lovely, free-spirited woman working as a barmaid. Eve soon catches Will's eye, and when she's accosted by a drunken customer, he comes to the rescue. A grateful Eve ends up going to a party with Will after work, and as the evening wears on, the two begin to wonder if they've found love at first sight. However, after spending the night at Will's apartment, Eve learns that he has a secret he hasn't shared with her, and that their time together may not be as long as she hoped. The first feature film from directors Alexander Holt and Lance Roehrig, Forget Me Not received its United States premiere at the 2010 Palm Beach International Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 93&nbsp;mins
