Tekken (鉄拳?) is a 2010 Japanese-released, American-produced martial arts film directed by Dwight Little and adapted from the fighting game series of the same name. The film follows Jin Kazama (Jon Foo) in his attempts to enter the Iron Fist Tournament in order to avenge the loss of his mother, Jun Kazama (Tamlyn Tomita), by confronting his father, Kazuya Mishima (Ian Anthony Dale) and his grandfather, Heihachi Mishima (Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa), the latter of who he thought was responsible for her death.
On November 5, 2009 Tekken was shown at American Film Market. On January 14, 2010, an international trailer was released, and the film premiered in Japan on March 20, 2010.
In 2039, after World War III have destroyed the civilization, territories are now run corporatively by megacorporations; the mightiest of which is the Tekken Corporation, which controls North America. In order to placate the seething masses of this dystopia, the corporation's Chairman/CEO, Heihachi Mishima, sponsors the King of Iron Fist Tournament, or Iron Fist - in which fighters battle until one is left standing, who in turn will receive a lifetime of stardom and wealth.
Jin Kazama has been raised in relative peace by his mother, Jun. She has trained him in many styles of martial arts and has been very much a mentor to him, yet mysteriously never speaks of Jin's father, simply claiming he is dead. Now a rebellious teenage street fighter and contraband runner, Jin witnesses the death of Jun during Tekken's crackdown on insurgents in Tekken City's slum area outside the city walls, referred to as the Anvil. Grieving the loss of his beloved mother and feeling guilty that he had not been there to protect her, Jin swears revenge against Heihachi. In the ruins of his former home, he finds a Tekken Fighter I.D. belonging to Jun among his late mother's belongings. Intrigued, he sets off to the Open Call, which allow the masses in the Anvil to pick a fighter for the tournament. After defeating the disgraced fighter Marshall Law, Jin gains sponsorship from former boxer Steve Fox and is hailed by the masses as "The People's Choice".
Upon entering the heart of Tekken City, Jin meets and befriends mixed martial artist Christie Monteiro. After witnessing former intelligence agent Raven overpower Capoeira fighter Eddie Gordo in the very first match, Jin wins his match against Miguel Caballero Rojo, nearly killing him in a fit of rage. Heihachi's son and right-hand man, Kazuya Mishima, is impressed and offers Jin a place in Tekken Corp., but Jin flatly refuses. Later that night, after sneaking out with Christie and visiting a nightclub where they flirt and bond, Jin is attacked by the assassin sisters Anna and Nina Williams, who are acting on the orders of Kazuya, who is scheming to take over Tekken Corp and now sees Jin as a possible obstacle. Jin survives the assassination attempt, thanks to Christie's interference. Steve and Christie both attempt to dissuade Jin from continuing in the tournament, as his life is in danger. Against their wishes, Jin vows to win Iron Fist and kill Heihachi. Meanwhile, Kazuya blackmails the tournament's current champion Bryan Fury into killing Jin in a match or be exposed as a part cyborg, effectively banning him from the tournament for life.
During the quarter-finals, Jin is matched up against the mysterious swordsman Yoshimitsu. Heihachi, taking a shine to this young fighter, deems that this match be reserved for the semi-finals and attempts to change the order. He is stopped by Kazuya, who has gained control of the Jackhammers, or Jacks (high tech soldiers used for peacekeeping and insurgent destruction). Kazuya then has Heihachi imprisoned and orders the match to begin, effectively seizing control of Tekken. Jin narrowly defeats Yoshimitsu, thanks to Heihachi tripping a security alert in the arena. Following the match, Kazuya orders all of the fighters to be detained. He later tells the imprisoned fighters that the rules have changed, wherein they must fight to the death in order to advance. Jin, Christie, and Steve launch an escape along with Raven and Heihachi. Unfortunately Raven is wounded and recaptured, but the rest make it out to the Anvil.
In the Anvil, Heihachi reveals to Jin the true nature of his origin, explaining that many years ago, Jun was fighting on the Iron Fist, and she impressed Kazuya, who raped Jun and attempted to kill her, effectively making Kazuya Jin's long-lost father. She survived Kazuya's assault, but Heihachi found her first and took her out of Tekken City in the Anvil to keep her alive. Heihachi also states that now Jin, being directly Heihachi's grandson, could potentially become the next Chairman of Tekken Corporation and that the corporation's true purpose is to restore order to the chaos-ridden world and help the people rise again, though Jin expresses disagreement and emanates distrust upon being told this. Heihachi entrusts Jin with the task of defeating Kazuya, but soon after, he and his party are located by Jacks and engage in a quick firefight that results in the death of Steve, and the recapture of the rest. Before taking Jin and Christie back to Iron Fist, Kazuya orders the Jacks to execute Heihachi.
Back in the tournament, an injured and dispirited Jin is forced to fight against Bryan, who had beaten and killed Sergei Dragunov in his last fight, in the finals while Kazuya holds Christie captive in the control room. At first he is outmatched, but inspired by memories of his mother and her teachings, Jin triumphs after a bloody struggle and kills the cyborg. Angered, Kazuya enters the tournament himself, armed with two half moon axes in hand, and begins the final match. The weaponless Jin is battered and seems on the brink of losing, but is saved when Christie escapes, shooting the Jacks guarding her and creating a distraction. This allows Jin to wound and pin down Kazuya, who baits Jin by claiming that he remembers Jun and how "she put up quite a fight". Kazuya taunts him into inheriting the Mishima Curse (Heihachi imprisoned and killed his father and Kazuya murdered Heihachi), but Jin refrains from killing his father, stating that he is a Kazama, not a Mishima. Christie comes down to the stage and declares Jin the new Champion of Tekken & "The People's Champion". Elated, the crowd both in and outside the arena cheer for him. When Christie asks where he will go, he replies that he will go back home to the Anvil. He walks out of Tekken City's gate and, in a scene reminiscent of Tekken 5, he is saluted by the Jacks - symbolizing his role as the new CEO of Tekken Corp. Jin walks the streets of the Anvil, a crowd follows him. A voiceover from Christie explains that Jin's victory made the Kazama family name synonymous with hope amongst his people in the Anvil, but that the true legacy of Tekken is only beginning.
At the end of credits scene, a wounded Kazuya walks by the holding cells back at the arena, as the scene shifts back to Heihachi's execution. A Jack is forcing Heihachi to kneel at gunpoint. His final words are: "I am Mishima Heihachi. I...am...Tekken. You will obey." The Jack does so and Heihachi lives, ready to take back Tekken.
The film's opening theme is "You're Going Down" by the Australian alternative band Sick Puppies, from their album Tri-Polar.
The film was screened at the Mann's Criterion Theatre in Santa Monica on November 5, 2009, as part of the AFM Film Festival in order to find a solid distributor. It was released in Japan on March 20, 2010 through Warner Bros. Pictures (Japan). The film also premiered on July 27, 2010 in Singapore and August 4, 2010 in the Philippines (via Pioneer Films). One week prior to the Philippine premiere, Jon Foo visited Manila to promote the film. Due to its poor reception, the film never saw a wide theatrical release in the United States, and was released direct-to-video instead.
The film was released on DVD and Blu-ray in Japan on August 11, 2010. In the UK, Optimum Released and distributed the film on May 2, 2011. Warner Bros. Pictures released the film in the United States on DVD and Blu-ray on July 19, 2011.
Katsuhiro Harada, director of the Tekken video game series, has panned the film. He said that Namco was "not able to supervise that movie; it was a cruel contract,” and later went on to say that he was "uninterested" in the film. Aside from his review, the film received mixed to negative reception.
Crystal Sky Pictures is bringing the video game Tekken back with a prequel to the 2010 live-action adaptation. This time, they have found a new helmer in Ong-Bak director Prachya Pinkaew. The new film, currently titled Tekken: Rise Of The Tournament, currently has no casting in place. However, the producers are looking for actors to closely resemble the characters who will be in the film.
The long-running Namco video game series makes the leap to the big screen with this tale of a young warrior who enters a highly exclusive fight tournament in order to avenge his mother's death. The year is 2039: the World Wars have left the Earth a desolate graveyard. From the ashes of governments have risen powerful corporations, and the most formidable of them all is Tekken. Presided over by a ruling elite whose sole purpose is to lull the masses into submission, Tekken stages a massive sporting event called the Fist Tournament, in which post-apocalyptic gladiators fight to the death for wealth and celebrity. Jin Kazama is one such combatant, but Jin isn't fighting for fame or money. His mother was killed by malevolent Tekken chairman Heihachi Mishima, and the only way Jin can get close enough to Mishima to kill him is by battling his way to the championship round. In order to get there, Jin trains under Lucas, a former Fist champion who knows what it takes to rise through the ranks. But with each new victory Jin uncovers another secret about his own dark past, and learns the apocalyptic truth about the vicious tournament that could bring about the downfall of humanity. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Tekken Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 91&nbsp;mins
