All the Time in the World (often referred to as Spy Kids 4D, also known as Spy Kids 4: All the Time in the World and Spy Kids 4D: All the Time in the World) is a 2011 American 4D family-oriented, Comedy adventure film directed by Robert Rodriguez and the fourth installment in the Spy Kids series. It was released on August 19, 2011. Filming began on October 27, 2010. It is the first of the series that uses "Aroma-scope" that allows people to smell odors and aromas from the film via scratch & sniff cards (reminiscent of the infamous 1960s Smell-O-Vision) last used theatrically in the 2003 animated film Rugrats Go Wild. This is the first film without the participation of Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino.
Marissa (Jessica Alba), is trying to fight a villain named Tick-Tock (Jeremy Piven), when she goes into labor with a baby girl named Maria and manages to defeat him and send him to jail. She decides to retire because she doesn't want her stepchildren and her newborn in danger and doesn't want anyone to know that she was a spy. The film then revolves around the twins named Rebecca and Cecil Wilson (Rowan Blanchard and Mason Cook) who always bet and compete against each other. Rebecca has no respect for her stepmother as she thinks that she won't be able to replace her deceased mother. Their father is actually a spy-hunting reporter Wilbur Wilson (Joel McHale), who has little time to spend with them and has to go to work and has not even caught one spy.
When Earth is threatened by an organization led by a hyperion mastermind mysteriously known as "the Timekeeper" (Jeremy Piven), Marissa is contacted and called back into action by the OSS and has to take the baby with her, leaving a red-sapphire necklace (the key to the Timekeeper's plan) with Rebecca. When the Timekeeper's thugs try to break into their house, Rebecca and Cecil escape and go into the Panic Room. A video is shown of Marissa, telling the children why the Panic Room was installed and that she is a spy. They don't believe it until their dog Argonaut talks, as he is a robot dog, and they escape in rockets and go to the OSS but then are chased by the Timekeeper's minions until they avoid them by throwing bags of vomit at them. Carmen Cortez (Alexa Vega) helps them by letting them have gadgets as souvenirs and wait in a room but they escape and create havoc around the OSS.
They later go to a clock shop as they uncover a code to where the Timekeeper is hiding and become frozen by Tick Tock but Marissa and Carmen help them by activating their gadgets and they all escape. Wilbur witnesses the fight and becomes upset, and is fired for destroying the evidence that Marissa is a spy and he is upset that she didn't tell him the truth about her past.
The OSS brings back Carmen's brother, Juni Cortez (Daryl Sabara) since he is their best agent ever and they have Rebecca and Cecil stay back at the OSS so they don't cause any trouble. But when the director of the OSS, Danger D'amo shows up and Rebecca notices his watch is like the Timekeeper and Cecil scrambles the letters of his name saying Armageddon, they are locked in. They escape by setting Argonaut to attack mode and smashing the door. The OSS agents are all frozen except Juni because he doesn't have his badge on as Carmen threw it away. Juni uses his watch to connect to Rebecca and Cecil to get the necklace back, and he unfreezes all the agents.
However, with the end of the world pending and the necklace stolen by the Timekeeper, both Rebecca and Cecil find that they have no choice but take part in the battle. As they get some gadgets and help Marissa, Rebecca has to put her anger against Marissa aside to rescue the lives that are at stake and are able to get through Tick-Tock's minions. They stop the Timekeeper who reveals he is doing this to see his father back in time, as while working on something else, Danger got frozen as a boy and kept going back in time to see him and (after aging as a side-effect) accept time the way it is. Following that epiphany, he disables the Armageddon device and leaves the premises an older and wiser man. Rebecca tells Marissa that she and Cecil are her kids and "the best spies ever". Wilbur handcuffs Tick-Tock, knocks out his minions, and Argonaut comes with Maria who takes her first steps. When Tick-Tock tries to charge and escape Maria flips him over her head. And Marissa saying "Baby's first bad guy". Carmen and Juni announce that they've decided to be co-leaders of the "Spy Kids" program. In the end we see Rebecca and Cecil choose new recruits and both say to the selected recruits "You have been activated."
Robert Rodriguez was prompted by an incident on the set of Machete to start envisioning a fourth film in the Spy Kids series. Star Jessica Alba had her then-one year old baby Honor Marie and was dressed to appear on camera when her baby's diaper "exploded". Watching Alba change the diaper while trying not to get anything on her clothes prompted Rodriguez to think "What about a spy mom?"
Production on the film was officially announced on September 25, 2009, six years after the release of Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over, by Dimension Films. The script for the film was completed by Robert Rodriguez in December 2009. The title for the film was officially revealed as Spy Kids 4: All the Time in the World on March 24, 2010 as well as an August 2011 release window, which was later updated to an August 19, 2011 release date. Filming for the movie began in October 2010. The teaser was released on May 26, 2011 during Kung Fu Panda 2 and June 3, 2011 during X-Men: First Class.
The film received unfavorable reviews upon release, with an approval rating of 23% and an average rating of 3.9 out of 10 on Rotten Tomatoes. It has a score of 37 out of 100 on Metacritic based on 27 reviews. CinemaScore polls reported that the average grade moviegoers gave the film was a B-plus on an A-plus to F scale.
The film took in $4 million on its opening day and $11.6 million over the three-day weekend, debuting in third place behind The Help and Rise of the Planet of the Apes. That was on the low end of expectations, but an executive of The Weinstein Company said, "We're okay with this number. We're going to be in good shape with this film, and it will play for the rest of the summer". The following weekend, it dropped 48% to $6 million, and took sixth place, and on the following weekend, it earned an additional $6.8 million over the four-day Labor Day Weekend. As of November 2011, the film earned $38 million in the U.S and $85 million worldwide, making it a financial success.
The film was released on DVD, Blu-ray, 3D Blu-ray and on DVD + Blu-ray + Digital Copy combo packs on November 22, 2011.
Dimension Films announced in February 2012 that Spy Kids 5 was under talks to begin production possibly later in 2012 with an unknown (even prospective) release date. The original cast is expected to return.
A retired spy-turned-full-time homemaker attempts to stop a power-mad supervillain from taking over the planet, and gets some unexpected help from her disagreeable twin step-children in this fourth entry of writer/director Robert Rodriguez's family-friendly adventure series. It's been a long time since former OSS agent Marissa Cortez Wilson (Jessica Alba) went chasing bad guys. These days it's hard enough just to get her precocious stepkids, Rebecca (Rowan Blanchard) and Cecil (Mason Cook), to clean their rooms, and make sure her baby daughter has a full sippy cup. And despite the fact that Marissa's husband, Wilbur (Joel McHale), earns his income chasing spies on TV, he hasn't a clue that his mild-mannered wife was once a cloak-and-dagger woman. Now the nefarious Timekeeper (Jeremy Piven) has hatched a plot for world domination, prompting the OSS to summon Marissa back to active duty. When Rebecca and Cecil discover their stepmother's tightly guarded secret, they realize they might be the only hope for getting her out of a tight jam and foiling the Timekeeper's evil plan. Fortunately Carmen (Alexa Vega) and Juni Cortez (Daryl Sabara) are more than willing to teach Rebecca and Cecil the tricks of the trade, and in no time the two bickering ten-year-olds are wielding hi-tech gadgets and heading out on their first assignment. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Spy Kids: All the Time in the World Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 88&nbsp;mins
