Freerunner is a 2011 film by Lawrence Silverstein starring Sean Faris (Never Back Down), Danny Dyer and Tamer Hassan in lead roles.
Freerunner is a based on a conceptual where chosen freerunners have to race against time scanning their collar belt on every check point within a given time limit. Their collar is fitted with a bomb which will blow off if they get out of green zone (area allowed to race), or it can be detonated manually too by the owner. At every checkpoint the last one to arrive gets eliminated. Winner of the race gets a prize of million dollars.
The runners are chosen according to their performance in the local races. Ryan, Kid Elvis, Mitch, Decks, Turk, West, Freebo and Finch are the eight such runners chosen against their will to participate. Bets are placed on their heads as race begins. Their race activity is monitored by the camera's present all over the city and also their collar cam. Their objective is to make it to the city bridge within sixty minutes or they all are dead.
Moviemavericks gave the film a 3 star rating out of 5 saying, " hits all the expected marks for a movie like this, doesn’t disappoint and the freerunning is neat to watch. Check it out if you like low budget actioners" comparing it with French made District B13. Haley Harris of The Film Judge gave the movie a 2.5 star rating calling it entertaining but over at the same time. He praised some of its cool stunts but panned the script and acting calling it cheesy.
Frerunners was released in Germany on 15 September 2011 at Oldenburg International Film Festival. The film became available on DVD and Blu-ray in October 18, 2011.
DVD extra includes behind-the-scenes footage, a making-of featurette, a look at the stunts and fights, and some on-set B-roll featuring the actors playing a game called ninja and engaging in random Parkour.
A group of freerunners race for their lives after being outfitted with explosive collars, and given 90 minutes to reach the other side of town or die trying. Ryan (Sean Faris) and his fellow parkour enthusiasts are used to taking big risks, and they make big money pushing the boundaries of physical endurance. But when Mr. Frank (Danny Dyer) enters the picture, Ryan's favorite pastime turns deadly serious. Mr. Frank and his friends are gamblers with no regard for human life, and their latest bet is which of the runners can navigate their urban jungle the fastest. With ticking time bombs strapped around their necks, the runners must find their way across the city in less than 90 minutes. The winner will receive a cool $1 million, and everyone else will get a splitting headache. When Ryan learns that his girlfriend has been kidnapped as well, he quickly realizes that he's got his work cut out for him. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Freerunner Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 88&nbsp;mins
