Martial Arts Of Shaolin (Chinese: 南北少林; pinyin: Nan bei Shao Lin, aka South North Shaolin, aka Shaolin Temple 3: Martial Arts of Shaolin) is a 1986 Hong Kong martial arts film. It is notable as the only collaboration to date between film director Lau Kar-Leung and actor Jet Li. It's later release on DVD as Dragon Dynasty.
The film is the third part of the successful 'Shaolin' film series which began with the 1982 Shaolin Temple and was followed by Kids From Shaolin (1984). However, although it stars many Mainland actors from either or both predecessor films (Jet Li, Yu Chenghui, Yu Hai, Hu Jianqiang and Huang Qiuyan), Martial Arts Of Shaolin uses a Shaw Brothers Hong Kong production crew, in contrast to the other two films (which are Hong Kong-funded but are shot by a Mainland director with a Mainland crew).
Martial Arts Of Shaolin performed moderately well at the Hong Kong box office, grossing HK $18,106,589.
This is the third in a series of Shaolin Temple films starring China's martial arts champion Jet Li (aka Li Lianjie). Li's good looks, star presence, and stunning gymnastics -- as he twists, turns, and somersaults through a series of well-choreographed battles -- carry this otherwise routine action film. He plays Zhi Ming, trained in the Northern Shaolin Temple after his father was murdered by the evil magistrate He Suo. Zhi Ming plans on attacking the magistrate during a lion dance performed at an annual festival. That attempt at retribution fails but introduces him to Sima, a woman who was trained in the Southern Shaolin Temple after her father was framed by He Suo. (The translation of the title for this film is North-South Shaolin Temple.) In fact, Zhi Ming's father died because he protested the treatment of his friend, Sima's father. It does not take long for Sima and Zhi Ming to discover that they have matching ankle bracelets -- meaning they were betrothed by their parents while still too young to know what that meant. Now they team up to bring down He Suo, engaging their enemies on the Great Wall of China and in the Forbidden City. Jet Li would make another Shaolin film in 1994 and gained recognition in the West when he played Mel Gibson's nemesis in Lethal Weapon 4 (1998). ~ Eleanor Mannikka, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 91&nbsp;mins
