Katy_Perry:_Part_of_Me
Released Year: 2012
Running time: 0
Director: Dan Cutforth
Cast: Katy Perry,Glen Ballard,Shannon Woodward,Angela Hudson,Russell Brand,Mia Moretti,Bonnie McKee,Adam Marcello,Angelica Baehler-Cob,Johnny Wujek,Bradford Cobb,Tasha Layton,Fatima Ben Marrou,Anissa Ben Marrou,Lucas Kerr,Rachael Markarian,Keith Hudson,Mary Hudson,David Daniel Hudson,Ashley Ashida Dixon,Tamra Natisin,
Content: Get to know the woman behind the pop icon as singer Katy Perry brings fans behind the scenes of her California Dreams Tour in this colorful, intimate musical documentary. 
Wiki info: 
Katy Perry: Part of Me (advertised and stylised as Katy Perry Movie: Part of Me 3D and Katy Perry The Movie: Part of Me) is a 2012 3D film centering on singer Katy Perry. It was directed by Dan Cutforth and Jane Lipsitz and released in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom and Ireland on July 5, 2012.
This film tells the story of the trajectory of Perry's career as gospel singer Katheryn Hudson and her best friends Fatima and Anissa until the present day as pop singer and global superstar Katy Perry, bearing testimony from Katy about her childhood, talking about the Teenage Dream era, with scenes from backstage of her last world tour while trying to take time to resolve personal problems, including her divorce from English comedian Russell Brand. The interim scenes document her last world tour, the California Dreams Tour, and were recorded on November 23, 2011 at Staples Center, Los Angeles.
On March 7, 2012, Perry announced via Twitter that she and Paramount Pictures would release a part-biopic, part-concert film entitled Katy Perry: Part of Me in summer of 2012. Perry told MTV News that the film was the closing to the Teenage Dream era and explained what to expect, stating, "It's closing the chapter on Teenage Dream, but it's giving you such an inside perspective  This film, you're going to see it from my best friendbuddy perspective, you're going to see exactly what I mean and feel and think about everything."
One golden ticket to the movie premiere was placed in a random physical copy of Teenage Dream: The Complete Confection. The first trailer of the film was aired during the 2012 Kids' Choice Awards. On March 31, 2012, Perry announced via Twitter that the film would be released during the weekend of July 4. A trailer of the film was released on April 2, 2012 on iTunes Store worldwide. Perry teamed up with Pepsi to promote the film. The partnership included co-branded television and radio spots, digital advertising and retail displays. All elements of the campaign featured Pepsi's new global tag line, "Live for Now". The campaign offered consumers the chance to win trips to attend the world premiere of the film in Los Angeles, which included a live performance by Perry. In June 2012, Perry held the American premier in Hollywood where she shut down Hollywood Boulevard to put on a free concert. Perry also held and attended to further premieres in Sydney, Australia and London, England, where she walked the "Pink Carpet". On July 30, 2012, there was a premiere in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil with the presence of Perry.
Special RealD 3D glasses were designed and distributed in theaters. The glasses featured a white and red "candy stripe" motif common to Perry's visual style and also featured the film's official Twitter hashtag.

