Dirty_Pictures
Released Year: 2009
Running time: 86
Director: Étienne Sauret
Cast: James Woods - Dennis Barrie,Craig T. Nelson - Sheriff Simon Leis,Diana Scarwid - Dianne Barrie,Leon Pownall - District Attorney Prouty,Matt North - Monty Lobb,David Huband - Sirkin,Judah Katz - Mizibov,Rachael Crawford - Bosworth,Marnie McPhail - Reising,R.D. Reid - Albanese,Allegra Fulton - Angela,Michele Muzzi - Brenda,Martin Roach - Ed,Tony De Santis - Floyd,Kenneth McGregor - Gil,Jeff Pustil - Harry,Sally Cahill - Liz,Linda Goranson - Mary,Geoffrey Bowes -Suit,John Evans - Tucker,Jonathan Whittaker - Muntz,Colin Fox - Walsh,Michael Seater - Ian,Stephen Joffe - Kevin Barrie,Nicky Guadagni - Kardon,Nancy Beatty - Reisman,Lawrence Bayne - Stein,Dave Nichols - Johnson,Michael Dyson - Bailiff,Frank Moore - Ruberg,
Content: Director Étienne Sauret presents the remarkable story of Dr. Alexander "Sasha" Shulgin, aka the Godfather of Psychedelics. Hailed by some as one of the most visionary chemists of the modern era, Dr. Shulgin is the man responsible for the creation of over 200 psychedelic drugs, including ecstasy. Despite frequent clashes with the law, the renegade experimenter continues his lifelong quest to communicate with his own mind in ways that most will never experience, frequently testing his creations with his devoted wife, Ann. 
Wiki info: 
Dirty Pictures is a 2000 American docudrama directed by Frank Pierson. The teleplay by Ilene Chaiken focuses on the 1990 trial of Cincinnati Contemporary Arts Center director Dennis Barrie, who was accused of promoting pornography by presenting an exhibit of photographs by Robert Mapplethorpe that included images of naked children and graphic displays of homosexual sadomasochism.
The film premiered on Showtime on May 20, 2000. It later was released on both videotape and DVD.
Dennis Barrie books a potentially controversial exhibit of Robert Mapplethorpe's nude photography for the Contemporary Arts Center and, with the support of his board of directors, opts to keep it on the schedule even after the prestigious Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, DC cancels it from their orface.
Even before the exhibit opens, controversy about its content arises and is fueled by the local media, and after it does, Barrie is indicted and put on trial on pandering and obscenity charges, and he and his family become the center of the highly charged case. As time passes, they become the targets of ongoing harassment and ridicule, are ostracized by their friends, offered a substantial bribe by the shady spokesman for a right-wing organization, and bullied by Monty Lobb, leader of the conservative group People for Community Values, but also find themselves receiving a great deal of support from not only the art community at large, but local citizens as well. As his marriage begins to disintegrate and the prospect of a jail sentence looms before him, he finds himself torn between his devotion to his family and his determination to defend the doctrines of the First Amendment.
Barrie ultimately is found not guilty. Via an epilogue we learn his marriage eventually ended in divorce and, despite his legal victory, his experience and the wide publicity it received consequently impacted on other museum curators and boards who opted to avoid presenting potentially controversial exhibits in their venues for fear of a similar backlash.
Throughout the film, scripted scenes intermingle with archival interviews with George H. W. Bush, Jesse Helms, Patrick Buchanan, Barney Frank, William Buckley, Susan Sarandon, and Salman Rushdie.

