The Moth Diaries is the debut novel of Rachel Klein, published in 2002.
At an exclusively girls' boarding school, Rebecca, a sixteen year-old girl, records her most intimate thoughts in a diary. The object of her growing obsession is her roommate, Lucy Blake, and Lucy's friendship with their new and disturbing classmate, Ernessa. Around her swirl dark rumors, suspicions, and secrets as well as a series of ominous disasters. As fear spreads through the school and Lucy isn't Lucy anymore, fantasy and reality mingle until what is true and what is dreamed bleed together into a waking nightmare that evokes with gothic menace the anxieties, lusts, and fears of adolescence. At the center of the diary is the question that haunts all who read it, "Is Ernessa really a vampire?" or has the narrator trapped herself in the fevered world of her own imagining?
The book was adapted into a movie released in 2011, directed by Mary Harron. Lily Cole stars as Ernessa, Scott Speedman as Mr. Davies and Sarah Bolger as Rebecca. Commenting on the film, director Harron said: "This is a chillingly atmospheric horror story with real emotional depth. I’ve tried to stay true to Rachel Klein’s novel in the way it re-works and updates the Gothic tradition and the whole notion of girl-on-girl vampires."
Director Mary Harron adapts author Rachel Klein's portentous novel about a teenage boarding-school student who fears that a mysterious newcomer has cast a dark spell over her cherished best friend. In the aftermath of her father's suicide, Rebecca (Sarah Bolger) had a difficult time making an emotional recovery. That all changed when she met Lucy (Sarah Gadon), a fellow student who helped to draw her out of her deep depression. Upon returning for their next semester at Brangwyn College, however, Rebecca and Lucy begin drifting apart following the arrival of Ernessa (Lily Cole), a moody new student who takes an immediate liking to Lucy and accosts her at every opportunity. When Rebecca's teacher Mr. Davies (Scott Speedman) gives his class the assignment of reading Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu's classic gothic novel Carmilla, Rebecca begins to suspect Ernessa of being a vampire intent on consuming Lucy's life force. Those suspicions seem to be confirmed when the students and staff of the school begin dying under mysterious circumstances and Lucy falls gravely ill. But the more Rebecca reaches out to Mr. Davies for help, the more unstable she begins to appear. Left with no other choice in order to save the life of her best friend, Rebecca vows to reveal Ernessa for what she truly is, and in the process makes a disturbing discovery. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Moth Diaries Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 82&nbsp;mins
