The Wild Soccer Bunch is a series of fourteen children's novels written by the German author Joachim Masannek, who was inspired to write the series during his years as a youth soccer coach. The books, originally written in German and published under the title Die Wilden Fußballkerle chronicle the adventures of a fictional youth soccer team called The Wild Soccer Bunch. They are illustrated by Jan Birck.
In the English translation of the Wild Soccer Bunch stories, the events take place in a small neighborhood in Chicago.
Joachim Masannek studied philosophy and German studies at the University of Television and Film Munich. He received awards for In Liebe, Catherine ("In Love, Catherine"), and Der Pampelmusenmod ("The Grapefruit Moon"), films that he produced as a student. After completing his studies, Masannek worked as a cameraman, screenwriter and director for film, television, and studio productions.
Masannek was the coach of a kids' soccer team, which inspired his creation of The Wild Soccer Bunch. His mission is to encourage children worldwide to live by values they learn by playing the game of soccer: courage, teamwork, and friendship. He presently lives in Munich with his sons, Leon and Marlon.
Jan Birck began his career as a freelance illustrator in an atelier in Munich, working for renowned advertising agencies. During this time, he and his wife launched Dreamotion Media, a company that develops books, films, and DVDs. Birck has earned his reputation as one of the world's finest illustrators of children's books, with drawings that have appeared in hundreds of publications. He presently lives in Munich with his wife and sons, Timo and Finn.
In the English translation of the Wild Soccer Bunch stories, the events take place in a small neighborhood in Chicago. The team is made up of a cast of colorful characters, each of them bonded by their passion for soccer. The team plays their beloved game according to five unbreakable rules: "1. Be Wild! 2. Everything’s cool, as long as you’re wild! 3. Never, ever give up! 4. One for all and all for one! 5. Once Wild, always wild!" The logo of the Wild Soccer Bunch is inspired by the original logo created by Masannek's children for their own soccer team.
Since the first book was published in 2002, the Wild Soccer Bunch series has gained immense popularity and commercial success in German-speaking countries and around the world. To date, fourteen Wild Soccer Bunch books have been published in 30 countries, and over 9 million copies have been sold. Five live-action feature films have been produced, generating ten million box office admissions in German speaking territories alone.
Four of the books - Kevin the Star Striker, Diego the Tornado, Zoe the Fearless, and Julian the Mighty - have been translated into English by Helga Schier, PhD, edited by American screenwriter and author Michael Part, and released in the US and Canada by Sole Books. These books are included in the Accelerated Reader program, and each contain a personal message from the American soccer player Landon Donovan, who has officially endorsed the series. Sole Books has offered a free copy of the first book, Kevin the Star Striker, to every school in America.
A motley team of young soccer players enlist the aid of an ex-footballer in taking back their playing field from a group of nasty older athletes who aren't about to give it up without a fight. Summer is here, but just as the young soccer enthusiasts set out to practice their footwork, the storm clouds roll in and the field gets flooded. By the time the mud has dried up, a gang of older thugs have taken over the field. Determined not to lose their own personal Olympiastadion, the kids challenge their older tormentors to a game that will decide to gets the field, and who goes walking. Though their chances of winning are slim, things start to look up when has-been soccer icon Willy agrees to train them for the big match. Later, as game day draws near, infighting starts to take its toll on the group, they fire Willy, and a young girl makes a play to join the team. But through it all, the feral young footballers remain determined to win, or go down fighting. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 85&nbsp;mins
