Goodbye First Love (French: Un amour de jeunesse) is a 2011 Franco-German film directed by Mia Hansen-Løve. It was selected for the main competition at the 2011 Locarno International Film Festival.
Paris, 1999. Camille (Lola Créton) is 15 years old and passionately in love and lust with Sullivan (Sebastian Urzendowsky), who is 19. Sullivan is planning a 10-month trip to South America with his friends. He is not taking Camille with him, which makes her feel quite insecure and resentful. Before Sullivan departs, they spend some time in Camille's mountain home in the Ardeche, riding horses through the fields, picking berries, basking in the sun and swimming in the Loire. When they return in autumn Sullivan leaves, writing letters to Camille while she marks his route on a map on her bedroom wall.
Time passes, and Sullivan stops writing. Camille enters in a state of depression and ends up at a hospital after trying to kill herself. But she moves on with her life. In 2003 four years have gone by and Camille is an architecture student. She has moved on with her life, cut her hair, has a job, and slowly begins to fall in love with her professor Lorenz (Magne Håvard-Brekke). Camille sees in Lorenz a stable man that has his life sorted out and makes her feel secure. She begins to work for Lorenz and also suffers a miscarriage. After eight years Camille and Sullivan meet again and she finds herself caught in between her university professor whom she has developed tender feelings for and her first love, whom she has never really forgotten.
The film is the young director's fourth film in a series about love, loss, and the passing of time: Après mûre réflexion (2004), Tout est pardonné (2007), The Father of My Children (2009), and finally, Goodbye First Love (2011). There are various themes present throughout the film: the first and foremost is this passing of time, in which everything changes and advances, yet everything still stays the same. In many instances of the film we see the date written or represented, marking a change or a milestone in the life of Camille, or simply a reminder that time is passing and life goes on. Camille is able to orient her life and move on after overcoming and intense coming and going of a first love. Yet, her feelings for him are always present, unconsciously and reflected in her work and her writings. The flowing river is a metaphor, a theory of the Greek philosopher Heraclitus: "You will not bathe twice in the same river." This phrase, tied with the ending song and image of the straw hat, makes for nostalgic and thoughtful personal conclusions about theories that in life everything returns, but at the same time everything moves on.
Although Camille has established and completed some goals in her life, she still hangs on to Sullivan. When he returns, she is just as attached to him as she was at the beginning of the film. This complexity and mixture of emotions of young love and mature adolescent reasoning is what gives dynamism to the film and attracts viewers because of its proximity to human psychology.
The film is full of small details open and inviting each viewer to personally interpret and perceive them according to their own life experiences and the theories and thoughts that they can extract from them.
A young woman discovers how hard it can be to move past the joy and pain of her first serious romance in this drama from writer and director Mia Hansen-Love. Camille (Lola Creton) was a naïve 15-year-old when she first met Sullivan (Sebastian Urzendowsky), a handsome young man of 19. Camille immediately fell deeply in love with Sullivan and she was convinced she'd found the relationship of her lifetime. However, while Sullivan cared for Camille, he wasn't ready to spend the rest of his life with her and he broke up the relationship to spend the better part of a year exploring South America. A heartbroken Camille suffered a nervous breakdown, and for years afterwards she found it hard to fully commit herself to a man. Eventually, a more mature Camille falls for Lorenz (Magne-Havard Brekke), a college professor she meets while studying architecture. With Lorenz, Camille finds herself in a satisfying relationship with a man who respects her, but her happiness proves short-lived when Sullivan reenters her life. Un Amour de Jeunesse (aka Goodbye First Love) received its North American premiere at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 110&nbsp;mins
