Happiness Is a Warm Blanket, Charlie Brown is a Peanuts television special animated by Wild Brain that was released in 2011. The special is the 45th Peanuts special and the first produced without Bill Melendez on the production team. It is also the first special without the direct involvement of Peanuts creator Charles Schulz, Lee Mendelson Productions or Bill Melendez Productions (it is unknown, though, if Lee Mendelson also worked on this special). The special was released on DVD on March 29, 2011, and first aired on television on October 1, 2011, on Teletoon in Canada. The special premiered in the United States on Thanksgiving Day, November 24, 2011 at 8:30PM ETPT on Fox, the first Peanuts special to air on the network; with this airing, Peanuts specials have aired on all four major networks. Coincidentally, the first half of the special on Fox competed directly with a Peanuts special that aired at the same time on ABC ("The Mayflower Voyagers" from This Is America, Charlie Brown). The special aired again in 2012, this time on November 23 (the day after Thanksgiving, so as not to directly compete with the other Peanuts specials) and December 17.
This special is particularly notable in that the charactersanimation are done in an early-1960s style, and uses only characters from that time period (including Violet, Shermy, and the original Patty), except for the inclusion of one later character, Woodstock, and intermediate-era characters Frieda, Faron, 5, 4, and 3 appearing briefly as extras; and even pays homage to the very first Peanuts strip, from October 2, 1950 (when Charlie Brown has a flashback sequence).
The title recalls the 1960s Peanuts phrase "Happiness Is A Warm Puppy," which became a cultural reference.
It was announced by one of the hosts at the 2010 84th annual Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade when a Snoopy balloon (in his flying ace outfit) passed by. As quoted: "Snoopy fans will be happy to know that next year, a new Peanuts animation will be flying your way."
The last Peanuts special had been in 2006. Craig Schulz, son of the strip's creator, said the intention was to use 1960s style animation. Wildbrain Entertainment found a Korean company to do the work. Schulz also said the majority of the script used the actual strips, supplemented by work by Pearls Before Swine creator Stephan Pastis. Pastis had the idea to focus on Linus' blanket.
After the death of Bill Melendez, the voices of Snoopy and Woodstock were provided by director Andrew Beall, though Melendez's Snoopy and Woodstock voice was used from archival sources.
The movie was scored by Devo frontman Mark Mothersbaugh.
Linus is pushed to his limits when he learns his grandmother is coming to visit and plans on ridding him of his childish security blanket. As Grandma’s arrival looms closer, the Peanuts gang tries to help Linus learn to cope without his fuzzy crutch. Linus' sister Lucy is particularly eager to cure Linus' dependency using her own psychiatric techniques. Charlie Brown tries to help; he just doesn't have the heart to see Linus suffer. Snoopy constantly agitates matters, because he wants the blanket for himself. In the end, insightful Linus points out that everyone has their own type of “security blanket” and in life a little security is a valuable thing.
Happiness Is a Warm Blanket, Charlie Brown was released on Blu-ray and DVD March 29, 2011 by Warner Home Video and includes the following:
The Peanuts gang learns a valuable lesson in the importance of security after Linus learns that his grandmother plans to rid him of his beloved blanket during an upcoming visit in this animated special inspired by the comic strips of Charles Schulz. Wherever Linus goes, his blanket is sure to follow. But when Linus learns that his fuzzy, ever-present companion may soon be taken away from him, his friends all rally to highlight the importance of letting go. Somewhere between Lucy's arm-chair psychiatry, Snoopy's scheming to claim the blanket for himself, and Charlie Brown's inability to act while seeing his friend in distress, however, the insightful owner of the blanket in question points out the fact that everyone has a comfort item that helps them through hard times, and that sometimes when the going gets tough the best we can do is hang on and hope that things will get better soon. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 46&nbsp;mins
