The Thieves (Hangul: 도둑들; RR: Dodukdeul; MR: Todukdŭl) is a 2012 South Korean heist film directed by Choi Dong-hun with an all-star ensemble cast.
Splashy action in overseas locations is mixed with double-dealings and multiple betrayals as a gang of South Korean thieves team up with a Hong Kong crew to steal a diamond necklace from a heavily-guarded casino safe in Macau.
With over 12.9 million ticket sales, the action comedy is currently the second highest grossing movie in Korean film history.
Posing as mother and daughter, two professional thieves - middle-aged alcoholic Chewing Gum (Kim Hae-sook) and trashy-sexy cat burglar Yanicall (Jun Ji-hyun) - rob the wealthy owner of Leesung Gallery (Shin Ha-kyun) of a rare artifact he bought from notorious Chinese fence Wei Hong (Ki Gook-seo). The theft is organized by team leader Popeye (Lee Jung-jae), helped by his associate Jampano (Kim Soo-hyun). The next day they are visited by a police detective (Ju Jin-mo) who is hot on Popeye's trail. Meanwhile, in Hong Kong Chinese veteran thief Chen (Simon Yam), along with Johnny (Derek Tsang) and Korean-Chinese Andrew (Oh Dal-soo), are busy robbing a jewelry shop. Afterwards, they're joined by Julie (Angelica Lee), the daughter of a professional safecracker. To escape the heat at home, the Koreans join Chen's gang in Hong Kong for a heist led by South Korean master thief Macau Park (Kim Yoon-seok), who was once Popeye's boss. Park's plan is to steal the Tear of the Sun diamond, worth US$20 million, which was stolen during an exhibition in Tokyo by Japanese thief Madame Tiffany (Yeh Soo-jung), mistress of Wei Hong, who is coming to sell it in Macau. Popeye has brought along safecracker Pepsi (Kim Hye-soo), just released on parole, but Park is unhappy with her joining the team, as they once had a relationship that ended badly four years ago. Park intends to sell the diamond back to Wei Hong for US$20 million - a risky venture as Wei Hong, whose face has rarely been seen, has a habit of murdering anyone who crosses him. Everyone in the team of thieves has a separate agenda and, when the robbery finally takes place in Macau, little goes according to plan.
Casting negotiations began since late 2010, and on March 21, 2011, film distributor Showbox confirmed the star-studded cast in a press release. Director Choi Dong-hun was quoted: "These are the very actors that inspired me to write what I have for the movie's script starting from its first line. I'm dreaming of creating explosive ensembles that will clash or harmonize within a single movie due to their different styles." Choi later confessed that the thought of directing this group of high-profile actors and actresses was "really scary", but "during filming, I couldn’t take my eyes off the monitor because of the charisma of all these actors. Never did it occur to me that they needed to be handled in a certain way. It’s just that the screenplay must be fully understood... We talk. Slowly infect them with my thoughts, mixing the individual with the movie’s tone and manner."
Calling Choi "a genius who also works extremely hard," actress Kim Hye-soo was in awe when she first read the script, saying, "It was a product of great effort, genius ideas and a detail-oriented, calculative mind. I think he knows who he is, the exact kind of films that he wants to make, and how to make them. The Thieves proves it."
On comparisons with Ocean's Eleven, the director said he never went into production consciously thinking about the hit Hollywood film. Though similar to it, he thinks The Thieves is actually closer to his previous films The Big Swindle and Tazza: The High Rollers, with the action featured "invested with more emotion." Kim Yoon-seok added that contrary to the characters' compatible and harmonious collaboration in Ocean's Eleven, "In The Thieves, we are all over the place, all with our own faults. But I think that you will see through the friendships and love in the film, our unique emotional developments will show through."
After six months of location shoots in Seoul, Busan, Macau, and Hong Kong, filming wrapped up on December 7, 2011.
With 436,622 tickets sold on the day of its release, The Thieves recorded the second highest single day opening of all time in Korea after The Host opened with 449,500 tickets sold in 2006. On its sixth day of release, it broke the 3 million mark in audience number, drawing 3.35 million viewers.  In eight days, the numbers had risen to 4,365,078 tickets, by the eleventh day, it drew 6.2 million viewers, by the thirteenth day, 7 million, and over 8 million by the sixteenth day.
After 22 days, it reached the "magic number" of 10 million viewers, only the sixth film to have done so in Korean film history. Kim Soo-hyun then fulfilled his public pledge to give a piggyback ride to the 10 millionth ticket holder, a middle school girl.
After reaching over 11 million viewers on its fourth week, it rose to number 4 on the Korean all-time box office charts, beating Haeundae. It then passed 12 million to leapfrog over Taegukgi, and on its sixth week its 12.31 million overtook The King and the Clown's record to become the second highest grossing movie in Korean film history.
Though the film's promoter sent out a press release that The Thieves reached 13,020,393 admissions on October 2 (70 days since its opening) and is now number 1 on the all-time box office chart, the Korean Film Council reports the actual admissions to be at 12,983,334 -- leaving the previous record of The Host unbroken.
The distribution rights to the picture were purchased by several countries including Singapore, Malaysia, Brunei, Indonesia, Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, Thailand, and Vietnam. It made its North American premiere at the 2012 Toronto International Film Festival, and was distributed in the US by Well Go USA Entertainment. Well Go will release it on DVD and blu-ray on February 12, 2013.
2012 Buil Film Awards
2012 Grand Bell Awards
2012 Korean Association of Film Critics Awards
2012 Blue Dragon Film Awards
2012 Women in Film Korea Awards
2013 KOFRA Film Awards (Korea Film Reporters Association)
2013 Asian Film Awards
Two bands of thieves team up to steal a priceless diamond from a casino known for its cutting edge security, and find their meticulously planned heist going to pot due to a series of unexpected complications. Opportunistic thief Popie (Lee Jung-jae) and his gang have just pulled of a big job in South Korea when they decide to get out of the country until the heat blows over. Never one to rest on his laurels, Popie has another caper planned in Macao that rests on his willingness to reteam with the slippery Macao Park (Kim Yun-seok), a former associate who once betrayed him. With wire specialists Yenicall (Jeon Ji-hyun) and Zampano (Kim Soo-hyun), skillful swindler Chewingum (Kim Hae-sook), and expert lock picker Pepsee (Kim Hye-soo) by his side, Popie puts his differences with Macao aside in hopes of swiping the raer yellow diamond known as the "Tear of the Sun". Meanwhile, Macao's team includes the crass Andrew (Oh Dal-soo), suave veteran thief Chen (Simon Yam), focused point man Jonny (Derek Tsang), and Julie (Lee Sinje) - who never met a safe she couldn't crack. But when the day of the heist arrives, the professionals who left nothing to chance find their perfect plan snowballing into disaster, and a cool $20 million payday about to slip though their fingers. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 136&nbsp;mins
