Caught Inside is a 2010 Australian thriller directed by Adam Blaiklock and produced by Paul S. Freidman. The film stars Peter Phelps, Harry Cook, Ben Oxenbould & Daisy Betts; Damien Wyvill as the cinematographer. Caught Inside was also produced under the names Locked In and The Hedonist.
Surfing charters are meant to be a trip to Paradise... With 7 male surfers stuck on a boat, there's bound to be some friction - but when two of the boys are replaced at the last minute with two gorgeous girls - the heat is turned way up! The one 'single girl' on board - SAM - enjoys the attention. She soon has them all wrapped around her finger, as she challenges surf legend "BULL" in being 'the Alpha Male' on board. But The Bull decides to make a forceful move on Sam. Archie's loyalty is torn - between Bull and the group, as the others beat and abandon Bull on an island, but soon the ever-determined Bull returns..! It's soon a life-and-death struggle on board the yacht, as the five imprisoned friends - Archie, Sam, Toobs, Rob and Alex - must survive the fury of the psycho at the helm. When everything goes horribly wrong - their "dream trip" turns into a nightmare battle of wits, love and survival.
Jealousy and romantic rivalry turns dangerous on the high seas in this drama from Australia. Bull (Ben Oxenbould) is a burly but charismatic surfer who has organized a dream vacation for himself and his friends -- twelve days aboard a yacht headed for the Maldive Islands, where Bull knows some outstanding and little known surf spots. While Bull and his buddies have traveled together before, this time is different -- Toobs (Simon Lyndon) has opted to bring along his girlfriend Alex (Leeana Walsman), and she in turn has invited her friend Sam (Daisy Betts) to tag along. Bull is attracted to Sam, but she's more interested in Rob (Sam Lyndon), whose approach is less aggressive. Bull doesn't care to take no for an answer and when he tries to force himself upon Sam, it leads to a standoff between him and the rest of the passengers. When his friends turn against him, Bull sinks into a rage that turns violent. Caught Inside was the first feature film from director Adam Blaiklock, and received its North American premiere at the 2011 South by Southwest Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All Caught Inside Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 95&nbsp;mins
