The Inbetweeners Movie is a 2011 British coming-of-age comedy film based on the E4 sitcom The Inbetweeners, written by series creators Damon Beesley and Iain Morris and directed by Ben Palmer. The film follows the misadventures of a group of teenage friends on holiday in Crete after the end of their final year at school together, and currently serves as an ending to the TV series. It stars Simon Bird, Joe Thomas, James Buckley and Blake Harrison. The film was released on 19 August 2011 in the UK and Ireland.
Friends Will McKenzie, Simon Cooper, Jay Cartwright and Neil Sutherland have finished their A-levels and are about to leave Rudge Park Comprehensive, much to the relief of Mr. Gilbert, their sardonic, mean sixth form tutor. Within their final week of school however, Jay's grandfather dies, Simon is dumped by his girlfriend Carli, and Will's divorced father tells him he has married his much younger mistress. The boys decide to go on holiday together and Neil books them on a trip to Malia, Crete.
Their accommodation in Malia is awful, confusing Neil as it apparently looked different on the booking process. On the way to the bars, the boys encounter a strange, annoying youngster named Richard (Theo Barklem-Biggs) who came alone to Malia for a holiday. While walking past the bars, the boys are tricked into entering a bar which is really empty but meet four girls; Alison, Lucy, Lisa and Jane. Their initial meeting goes less than smoothly as Will chats to Alison and pokes fun at her clichéd "Greek waiter boyfriend", Simon bores Lucy talking about Carli, Neil has a non-conversation with Lisa, and Jay gets stuck with the bubbly and overweight Jane. The girls go on their way after Neil seduces two older women, but arrange to meet the boys the next day.
Outside the bar, Simon sees Carli across the street; this is because Neil asked Carli where she was going on holiday and absentmindedly booked the same place. Simon then angrily tells Neil that the point of the holiday was to take his mind off Carli, but decides to go and speak to her. He talks awkwardly with her before being knocked down by a quad-bike ridden by James, a cocky and abusive alpha male club rep and Carli's new boyfriend. Carli reveals she is going to an all-day boat party later in the week, and Simon pledges to meet her there.
The next morning, Will and Simon awaken to the sound of Neil having sex with a late middle-aged woman and find Jay sleeping face-down in an ants' nest outside. After sobering up, they go to meet the girls by their hotel pool. While there, a little boy publically humiliates Jay by pushing him into the pool and later pulls Jay's shorts down, after which Jay throws him into the pool in retaliation, only to find out that the boy did not lie when he said he can not swim. The boy is rescued by other hotel patrons. At the same time, a man shows up who had reserved poolside sun-loungers by putting towels on them, and is angry because the boys have thrown the towels in the pool and taken the chairs for themselves. The staff then ask the boys to leave. Will tries to convince the staff to let him have the seats and shamelessly points out that the man's daughter, who is in a wheelchair, does not even need another chair, thereby disgusting everyone around them. Having publicly humiliated themselves, the boys are quickly ejected from the hotel.
Outside, Jay and Simon have a serious argument. Jay complains of Simon's continuing obsession with Carli and his constant moaning, while Simon berates Jay's continual lying and false bravado, and they 'fight' (of a fashion) in the street. Will and Neil separate the pair and drag off Simon and Jay, respectively, in different directions. Desperate to buy a ticket for the boat party, Simon naively sells all his clothes to James, including what he is wearing, but never gets paid for them and is left naked. Meanwhile, Jay angrily tears up two of the four boat party tickets he secretly bought for all of them as a surprise, hence having shown a kinder side. He and Neil then go to a nightclub later that night hoping to meet more girls, only to witness a male stripper performing autofellatio on stage. The duo subsequently run into James and his 'friends', during which James threatens to injure Jay if they don't leave.
Later that evening, the four boys meet back at the bar and bury the hatchet. Before long, the girls turn up and suggest that they all go skinny dipping at the local beach. Jane attempts to kiss Jay, but when two men poke fun at him over her weight and Jay pulls away, she leaves him behind. Will has better luck with Alison until she spots her boyfriend Nicos having sex with another woman, and she leaves crying. Lucy and Simon appear to be growing closer until he sees Carli on the beach and leaves Lucy alone in the sea. Will casually contemplates suicide in the hotel pool, but Neil cheers him up and the boys go out partying.
Eventually, they are able to obtain tickets for the boat party and on board. Carli kisses Simon passionately in order to make James jealous, and Simon realises he is being used, and leaves Carli. Jay apologises to Jane, and she takes him into the toilets to perform oral sex. After finishing, they encounter James, who mocks Jane's weight and demands a banknote from Jay, so that he can snort drugs. Getting his own back, Jay gives him a €20 note that had been concealed in his anus to be used as a bribe for 'corrupt foreign police' when necessary, resulting in James unknowingly walking around with faeces on the end of his nose. Neil bumps into Richard during the boat party and is introduced to Richard's parents (both senior citizens), who came over at Richard's request to pick him up. When Neil is about to kiss the mother as a polite gesture, Lisa rushes over and tells her to back off, as she thinks Neil is trying to make moves on her like he did with the other older women at the bar. After Neil tells Lisa that his girlfriend back home dumped him, and he did not want to tell the others to save on being embarrassed, they feel no longer limited in the kind of sex they have.
Meanwhile, Alison hunts out Will and asks to be his girlfriend, which he eagerly accepts. Simon finally sees that Lucy, who gave him her ticket so that he could attend the party, is more worthy of his attention than the shallow Carli. Knowing that he has been less than kind to her, and encouraged by everyone on the boat, he decides to swim all the way to shore to tell her how he feels, as a grand romantic gesture, and dives into the sea. However, because of the strong tidal drift so far from shore, he struggles and almost drowns, and has to be airlifted to shore. As paramedics load him into an ambulance, a concerned Lucy rushes forward and kisses him, and they reconcile whilst Simon tells her 'It's normally bigger, it's just cold'.
After the boat party is over, the other boys and girls visit Simon in hospital, and once he recovers they all spend the rest of their holiday together as couples. Eventually, the four boys head home to the UK. As they meet their families at the airport, their girlfriends exit the same terminal and introduce themselves to the boys' parents as the film ends. Neil and Lisa quickly rush from the airport when Nicole is also waiting for him at the airport (Neil had lied about Nicole dumping him during the boat party). In a final scene before the credits, a drunken Mr. Gilbert is seen riding a quad bike through the streets of Malia in his underwear with a tie round his head in a John Rambo style.
List of cast members:
The official soundtrack consists of:
Songs not on the official soundtrack but featured in the movie:
Principal photography took place in the United Kingdom, Magaluf and Malia, Crete. A YouTube video shows the lads walking down the Malia Strip, walking past popular clubs 'Corkers', the strip club 'GoGo Lap Dancing Club' and 'Candy Club'. The Interiors of the empty club where Neil shows off his dance moves were shot in Infernos night club on Clapham High Street, London.
On its first day of release, The Inbetweeners Movie grossed over £2.5 million in 409 cinemas, outperforming Cowboys & Aliens. The film then went on to set a new record for the most successful opening weekend ever achieved by a comedy film in the UK, overtaking Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason and The Hangover Part II after earning £13,200,000. It retained its number 1 position in the UK film charts for 4 weeks and for 3 weeks in the Republic of Ireland, finally being overtaken by Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy on 16 September 2011. The film saw a limited theatrical releases in the United States on 7 September 2012 where it grossed $36,000, making its total box office revenue $88,025,781.
The Inbetweeners Movie received mostly positive reviews upon UK release in August 2011. However, following release in the US in September 2012 critical reaction was less favourable, with the film currently holding a 55% score on Rotten Tomatoes. At the website Metacritic, which uses a normalized rating system, the film received a mixed rating of 44100 based on 36&#160;reviews. Ian Freer of Empire gave the film four stars out of five, observing that "Like any holiday, it is episodic and suffers from repetition but this is gag-for-gag the funniest film of the summer and a fitting end to a much-loved series." Steve Rose of The Guardian gave the film three stars out of five, giving particular praise to Simon Bird's performance and arguing that the film "updates the teen summer holiday formula surprisingly entertainingly, considering it doesn't subvert it one iota and the formula was already done previously with Holiday on the Buses and Kevin & Perry Go Large among others." Tim Robey of The Daily Telegraph also gave a positive assessment of the film, praising it as "an enormous hit, a Mamma Mia! for the Hangover demographic." Screen Daily, on the other hand, gave a mixed review, praising the performances of the main cast and proclaiming the film "Britain’s delayed riposte to American Pie," yet simultaneously arguing that it "can't quite shake off its TV roots, and plot-wise, this is nothing the Greek tourist board would want to advertise." In contrast, Margaret Pomeranz from At the Movies called the characters "gormless" and said, "I'm giving this one star really generously."
On 12 December 2011, The Inbetweeners Movie was released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc in the UK by 4DVD, with the latter version sold as a triple pack containing both formats along with a digital copy of the film. Both versions include a number of special features, such as a making-of documentary, footage from the film's London premiere, various deleted scenes, cast commentaries and a blooper reel. The Blu-ray Disc release also features an extended cut of the film that restores approximately four minutes of material omitted from the theatrical release, most notably an additional scene in which Will and Simon encounter a drunken Mr. Gilbert on a Malia stag weekend. These additions resulted in the extended cut being rated an 18, as opposed to the 15 rating of the theatrical release.
Following its appearance in UK stores, the DVD quickly became a major financial success. Within less than a week, the film became the third fastest-selling British home media release of 2011 after Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 and Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2, with approximately 575,000 copies sold in the first day of its release. By December 17, estimated sales reached one million, resulting in the film displacing the home media release of Paul as one of the five best-selling DVDs of the year in the UK.
Although originally intended as an unambiguous ending to the TV series, the unprecedented popularity and box office success of The Inbetweeners Movie has led to speculation over the possibility of a sequel. Anonymous claims that a second film, involving Will, Jay, Simon and Neil reuniting four years later for a stag party prior to Neil's wedding, is already in the early stages of production, have been consistently denied by the cast and crew, with screenwriter Iain Morris commenting on Twitter that he had never heard any discussion of a sequel prior to the aforementioned rumours appearing in an article in the Daily Mirror. All four members of the main cast, however, have expressed a willingness to return for another Inbetweeners film in the future if necessary, with Simon Bird commenting that "I wouldn't rule it out. We'll wait and see."
Producer Christopher Young has also openly recognised the possibility of another film based on the series, claiming that "if there is a sequel it will come from the creative elements&#160;... We've talked about it. In the short term people are dispersing and doing other things but I'm sure in the medium term a sequel is very possible. It won't be immediate but it's definitely not closed." 
The Inbetweeners Movie won Best Comedy at the 2012 Empire Awards, where Blake Harrison and Tamla Kari expressed interest in a sequel.
On 21 August 2012, it was announced that a sequel is in early stages of preproduction.
On 8 November 2012 it was announced by series creators Iain Morris and Damon Beesley that a script was being written and it is at "version 0.5"
On 3 July 2012, it was announced that a U.S. adaptation of The Inbetweeners Movie is to be made. Morris and Beesley were approached by Paramount Pictures to lead the project. On November 28, 2012, MTV decided to cancel the U.S version of the show due to low ratings. The future of the movie is still unclear. 
Based on the hit British TV series of the same name, director Ben Palmer's The Inbetweeners follows teenage losers Will, Jay, Simon, and Neil as they head to Greece for a wild vacation, but find their dreams of debauchery scuttled by an acute lack of funds and female interest. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Inbetweeners Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 97&nbsp;mins
