House of Boys is a 2009 Luxembourgian-German drama film directed and written by Jean-Claude Schlim, starring Layke Anderson, Benn Northover and Udo Kier. The film follows the story of Frank, a gay teenager in the 80's who runs away from his home to start a new life and later his struggle against the recently discovered AIDS.
Teenage gay Frank (Layke Anderson) is part of a typical bourgeois family in the 1984 Luxembourg. For unknown reasons, he decides to run away with his best friend, Rita. They settle in Amsterdam, where Frank starts enjoying life. When Rita leaves with her boyfriend, Frank is left with no place to go. He goes to a public house called the "House of Boys" in which young, attractive men dance and provide sexual services to older men. The place is run by the mysterious performer and drag queen Madame (Udo Kier), who takes Frank in and employs him. In the club he meets Angelo, who aspires to transition from male to female, and raises funds for his gender reassignment surgery; and Jake (Benn Northover), a veteran performer and favorite of customers, who considers himself to be straight. Frank falls in love with him, but struggles with Jake's claim of heterosexuality in light of his male-hustler lifestyle. Jake's lone time girlfriend steals his money and uses it have an abortion. He breakups with her and finds comfort in Frank's arms. They start a relationship which for both seems to transcend superficial sex into love. Soon Jake begins being ill, faints, and develops spots on his skin. He's diagnosed with AIDS. Meanwhile, Europe sees the start of the AIDS epidemics. The remainder of the film chronicles Jake's decline and eventual death while the boys house closes. The closing scenes show Frank traveling to Morocco to scatter Jake's ashes out over the sea.
The film received mixed to positive reviews from critics. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 57% of professional critics gave the film a positive review, with a rating average of 6.4 out of 10. Critics agreed the film starts slow but later develops into a deeper story. Jeannette Catsoulis from the New York Times wrote a positive review about the film, and said that it "conveys an emotional honesty that overrides its dated style."
The film soundtrack uses music from a number of renowned artists like Cockney Rebel, Jimmy Sommerville, Roy Orbison, Spandau Ballet, Soft Cell and ends with "Là-bas" (Somewhere) (music by Cyril Collard and lyrics by Corine Blue) and performed by Nyco Lilliu.
A gay runaway from Luxembourg becomes a featured dancer at an Amsterdam cabaret, but finds the thrill of his new lifestyle decidedly short-lived as a deadly and mysterious new disease begins sweeping through the gay community in this compassionate drama set during the frightening first wave of the HIVAIDS epidemic. Frank was a teenage misfit just searching for a place to fit in when he left home, and arrived at the House of Boys - a colorful cabaret run by the charismatic Madame (Udo Kier). Before long, Frank is a featured player. But just as Frank has finally found a place where he can embrace his independence, an aggressive virus threatens to destroy the only family he's ever known. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 117&nbsp;mins
