To Rome with Love is a 2012 magical realist romantic comedy film written by, directed by, and starring Woody Allen. The film is set in Rome, Italy. The film was released in Italian theaters on April 13, 2012, and opened in Los Angeles and New York City on June 22, 2012.
The film features an ensemble cast, and Allen himself in his first acting role since 2006's Scoop. The story is told in four separate vignettes: a clerk who wakes up to find himself a celebrity, an architect who takes a trip back to the street he lived on as a student, a young couple on their honeymoon, and a funeral director who has a talent for singing in the shower.
To Rome with Love follows four interspersed but unrelated plotlines taking place in Rome.
Grouped by storylines
The idea to produce To Rome with Love came from an offer from distributors from Rome who offered to finance a film for Allen, as long as it was filmed in Rome, which he accepted due to his desire to both work in Rome and "opportunity to get the money to work quickly and from a single source". The four vignettes featured in the film were based on ideas and notes he had written throughout the year before he wrote it. The vignettes featured in the film deal with the theme of "fame and accomplishment", although Allen stated that he didn't intend for them to have any thematic connection. He initially named the film Bop Decameron, a reference to the 14th century book by Italian author Giovanni Boccaccio, but several people didn't understand the reference, so he retitled it Nero Fiddles. The new title was still met with confusion, so he settled on the final title To Rome with Love, although he has stated that he hates this title.
To Rome with Love was a box office success. As of November 15, 2012, it has earned $16,685,867 in the United States making it the seventh highest-grossing film in the 21 year history of Sony Pictures Classics.
As of November 27, its worldwide total stands at $73,039,208. This is Woody Allen's fourth best ever box office total (not counting for adjusted ticket prices).
The film has generally received mixed reviews from critics. The review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 45% based on reviews from 51 critics with an average score of 5.710. The critical consensus is that "To Rome With Love sees Woody Allen cobbling together an Italian postcard of farce, fantasy, and comedy with only middling success." Metacritic gives the film an average score of 55 out of 100, and thus "mixed or average reviews", based on eighteen professional critics. Roger Ebert gave the film 3 stars out of 4 writing "To Rome With Love generates no particular excitement or surprise, but it provides the sort of pleasure he seems able to generate almost on demand."
A. O. Scott of The New York Times found some of the scenes "rushed and haphazardly constructed" and some of the dialogue "overwritten and under-rehearsed", but also recommended it, writing "One of the most delightful things about To Rome With Love is how casually it blends the plausible and the surreal, and how unabashedly it revels in pure silliness." On the other hand, David Denby of The New Yorker (to which Allen has been a contributor for many years) thought the film was "light and fast, with some of the sharpest dialogue and acting that he’s put on the screen in years."
In Woody Allen's ensemble comedy To Rome With Love, various lives intersect in the Italian city. The characters include architect John (Alec Baldwin), a young man (Jesse Eisenberg) in love with his girlfriend's best friend, an opera director (Woody Allen) who finds an undiscovered talent in an unexpected place, and Leopoldo (Roberto Benigni), who inadvertently becomes one of the most famous people in Rome. ~ Perry Seibert, RoviSee All To Rome With Love Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 112&nbsp;mins
