Juan of the Dead (Spanish: Juan de los Muertos) is a Spanish-Cuban zombie film written and directed by Alejandro Brugués. in 2010. Coproduction by La Zanfoña Producciones (España), Producciones de la 5ta Avenida (Cuba), with the participation of the ICAIC Canal Sur and Televisión Española .
Juan Alexis Díaz de Villegas is forty years old and has devoted the majority of his life to living in Cuba doing absolutely nothing. This is his way of life and he is willing to defend it at any price. He is accompanied by his partner and sidekick, Lazarus Jorge Molina who is just as lazy but the bigger fool. The only emotional bond John has is with his daughter Camila Andrea Hard, a young and beautiful girl who wants nothing to do with her father because the only thing he does is get in trouble.
Suddenly a strange series of events begin to occur: people become violent and attack each other. After some hesitation, John comes to the conclusion that it is zombies and decides that the best way to deal with the situation is to prosper from it and starts a business with the slogan: 'John of the Dead: we kill your loved ones. How can we help you today?'
The film was first shown at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival. Focus Features released the film on August 14 via iVOD and VOD, along with DVD and Blu-ray Disc.
Total Film gave the film three stars out of five, noting the film's "jaunty tone bristling uneasily with often unlikeable heroes" but praised its political context, stating that the film "resurrects the genre's political subtexts with jibes at a country where zombies are dismissed as 'dissidents' and public transport continues to run, no matter what."
Two friends from Cuba hatch a plan to launch a zombie extermination service after their picturesque island is overrun by the living dead in this satirical horror film from director Alejandro Brugués (Personal Belongings). It's the anniversary of the Cuban Revolution, and as the hungry undead make an unwelcomed appearance, best friends Juan (Alexis Días de Villegas) and Lázardo (Jorge Molina) decide to parlay their skills for dispatching zombies into a professional career. As the government attempts to maintain public order by blaming the fracas on Americans who they claim are attempting to topple the current regime, Juan and Lazardo rally the troops, gather their weapons, and prepare to make a killing by ridding Cuba of zombies one shambling, flesh-eating corpse at a time. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 96&nbsp;mins
