Diary of a Wimpy Kid: The Last bat
Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Dog Days is a 2012 comedy film directed by David Bowers from a screenplay by Wallace Wolodarsky and Maya Forbes. It stars Zachary Gordon and Steve Zahn. Robert Capron, Devon Bostick, Rachael Harris, Peyton List, Grayson Russell, and Karan Brar also have prominent roles. It is the third installment in the Diary of a Wimpy Kid film series and is based on the third and fourth books in the series, The Last Straw and Dog Days. The film was released on August 3, 2012. It is also Bowers' second live-action film.
When the Heffley family attends a pool party at the local pool to start off the summer, Greg (Zachary Gordon) is found playing Twisted Wizard 2 on his PSP. The family meets a former trouble-making friend of Rodrick who is now a model student after attending a military school known as Spag Union. Frank (Steve Zahn) wants Greg to do something outdoorsy by swimming. Manny (Connor & Owen Fielding) calls Greg over to the baby pool. He laughs and says he is peeing. After Greg watches other toddlers urinating in the pool, to his horror, the show begins with Greg speaking to the audience about summer and that he and Frank have nothing in common. But at least if he stays a step ahead, Greg claims that he has a shot at a great summer.
On the last day of school, when last period almost ends, Greg attempts to get his crush Holly Hills (Peyton List) to put her phone number in his yearbook in addition to signing it. However, she is forced to leave with Patty (Laine MacNeil) before she can write the last two numbers. The school hallway is a zoo. While Greg finally makes it out, Greg attempts to ask Holly to finish, but she sees his brother before he can finish his request. A car comes by, and Holly is forced to leave for a ride. Meanwhile, Rodrick (Devon Bostick), who is advertising his band at Greg's school, falls in love with Holly's older sister, Heather Hills (Melissa Roxburgh).
Because the phone number is missing the last two numbers, Greg tries to call every possible two numbers. Unfortunately for him, he never receives an answer from Holly. Later, Susan (Rachael Harris) makes a book club called "Reading Is Fun." Sometime later, Greg's best friend, Rowley Jefferson (Robert Capron) takes Greg to the local country club, which Greg takes a liking to instantly due to the seemingly free food, the sparsely populated pool, and the fact that Holly teaches tennis there. While at the club, he arranges a tennis match the next day despite the fact that he and Rowley have never played tennis. When Greg returns home, he finds his father has offered to sign him up for an internship at his job, but Greg makes up a hasty lie about having a job at the country club to get out of it and to go to the country club every day. The next day at the tennis match, it becomes painfully obvious that Greg and Rowley have never played tennis, and Holly teaches Greg personally.
At a party at Warren's, Greg's dad decides to get a dog for the family and to sign Greg up in the Wilderness Explorers (a parody of the Boy Scouts of America) to teach him responsibility after hearing it worked with Warren's sons. At the same party, Rodrick finds out that Greg does not have a job, and tells Greg that he will not reveal Greg's secret to his parents if Greg will take Rodrick to the country club to see Heather. Greg reluctantly agrees, and Rodrick attempts to make Heather fall in love with him, though his attempt to do so ends horribly. Later that day, Frank gets the dog. Greg wants to name the dog Shredder or Ripjaw, but the names are too violent. Then Manny names the dog "Sweetie", who proves to be a handful after being walked through the town.
Rowley invites Greg on a family trip to their beach house near the Boardwalk. Just before Greg leaves, his parents give him a ladybug cell phone, which only allows him to call home and 9-1-1. Greg sees that the house that they are staying at is far away from the boardwalk. The Jeffersons play a game of "I Love You Because." When Greg has to compliment Mr. Jefferson (Alf Humphreys), he has no idea what to say. (He might have eventually answered, but whatever else he had to say is skipped). When they visit the amusement park, Greg convinces Rowley to go on the Cranium Shaker despite Rowley's conservative parents telling them to not go on scary rides and to meet them back in one hour. Rowley feels nervous since he had promised his parents. They get on the ride, and it is not a pretty sight. At the end of the ride, Rowley's parents find out, and they tell Rowley that they were searching everywhere and they were about to call the police to report him missing. Rowley feels guilty when they tell him that they are disappointed in him. At home during bedtime, he hates the sleeping situation, and Greg attempts to email his mother asking her to help him leave while Mr. Jefferson uses the restroom, but he accidentally emails everyone on Mr. Jefferson's contact list. Panicking, Greg tries to escape by calling his parents using his ladybug, but when he pushes the house button the phone tells him that it cannot take his call. He tinkers with the phone, but he then accidentally presses the 911 button. The Police arrive and attack Mr. Jefferson for having a knife in his hand. Greg is then sent home early, and Frank tells him that Rowley is a bad influence because Greg always gets into trouble around him.
Later, when Greg asks Rowley to take him again into the Country Club, Rowley lies and states he is not going there. Still, Greg sneaks in, pretending to be a member of the Jefferson family. After falling from the high dive naked, he runs into Holly and her sister and manages to get Löded Diper a gig at Heather's 16th birthday party, much to Rodrick's delight. He meets Rowley, who tells him he had lied to protect Greg's feelings because his parents didn't want to invite Greg. He and Greg make up, however Rowley's father becomes infuriated that Greg has built up a massive smoothie bill and tells Frank, who then finds out Greg does not have a job and is forced to pay himself. Much to Greg's horror, he and Rodrick intercept a promotional package DVD from Spag Union directed to his father, and Greg fears that he is going to be sent there.
Rodrick tells Greg about the "Wilderness Weekend", where he can attempt to impress his Dad while out on a camping trip. Greg, hoping this may be his last chance to impress his Dad, goes there. However, their troop proves to be weak compared to Troop 42, led by Warren (Phil Hayes), who pitch their tents where Greg's troop was about to stay, forcing them to put their tents next to the bathroom. Greg and his friends overhear Stan and his sons mocking Greg's father and plan to set up a trap for revenge involving a nest of ants. However, Warren's expensive tent gets destroyed, and Greg discovers that Troop 42 has not been camping but living off of excessive conveniences. When Greg steps up and takes the blame, Frank is impressed and finds out about Troop 42's electronic convenience. Frank angrily confronts Warren as a phony, and Warren falls into the trap that Greg, Rowley, Fregley (Grayson Russell), and Chirag (Karan Brar) made. As a result, Warren is chased by bees and a bear. Frank later takes Greg to a hotel and reveals he never liked camping. He tells Greg that he will not send him to Spag Union and that he is proud of him.
At Heather Hills' Sweet 16th birthday party, Löded Diper performs a rock version of Justin Bieber's "Baby" during an attempt to win over Heather. However, they end up ruining the party and humiliating her in the process. Greg apologizes to Holly, however she states she is happy as she felt that her sister deserved it. Then, Holly holds Greg's hand, implying that she likes him. The film ends with Greg, Rowley, and Holly swimming at the community pool, eating hotdogs, and enjoying the rest of their summer.
Principal photography began on August 8, 2011 in Vancouver and was completed on October 7, 2011.
A poster was leaked in March 2012. A teaser trailer was attached to The Three Stooges.
An advance screening for the film was held on July 31, 2012.
The film has received mixed reviews. It holds 51% on Rotten Tomatoes, with the general consensus stating "Overly familiar and a bit too reliant on slapstick, the sitcom-like Dog Days fails to improve upon previous installments and will likely appeal to few outside its target audience."  On Metacritic, the film has a score of 54100, indicating "mixed or average reviews." Abby West of Entertainment Weekly gave the film a B+ and wrote "Though often self-centered and conniving, Greg remains a likable kid, and the movie entertains by pulling off over-the-top scenarios that set up digestible life lessons for youngsters."
Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Dog Days was released on iTunes on December 4, 2012. It was released on DVD and Blu-ray in the United States on December 22, 2012.
It was released on Redbox on January 15, 2013.
Dog Days has been described as the last live-action film in the franchise. In August 2012, while doing press for the third film, Jeff Kinney, Zachary Gordon and Robert Capron each indicated that there were no plans for a fourth film, but did not dismiss the possibility entirely. Kinney replied to inquiries regarding the possibility of another sequel, stating, "At present, we don’t have a fourth film in development, but you never know!" And when describing the likelihood of starring in another film in the series, Gordon explained, "(Dog Days) most likely will be the last movie. The main problem is (the cast) is getting older. You can't stop it. There's no way to temporarily stop us from changing and growing up. You know, that's the problem because the characters are supposed to be timeless."
Jeff Kinney has indicated that instead of doing a live-action film of the sixth novel Cabin Fever, he would like to see it adapted into an animated film, stating in an interview, "I hope that it gets made into an animated movie. I'd really like to see it turn into an animated television special".
Zachary Gordon stated in a Spreecast live stream that there will not be a fourth film.

In this third film in the Diary of a Wimpy Kid series, Greg Heffley (Zachary Gordon) wants to spend the summer before eighth grade playing video games and maybe, if he can finagle it, getting closer to his crush Holly Hills (Peyton List). The former plan goes out the window when his dad Frank (Steve Zahn) decides to ban video games from the house. In order to connect with his young son, Frank schedules a number of fishing trips and signs the boy up for Scouts. Greg has more luck on the girlfriend front when his best friend Rowley (Robert Capron) invites him to go to his family's country club, where Holly works as a tennis instructor. Soon, in order to avoid spending so much time with his dad, Greg lies to his parents and says he works at the club, a deception that his older brother Rodrick (Devon Bostick) uses to blackmail him and gain access to the establishment. ~ Perry Seibert, RoviSee All Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Dog Days Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 94&nbsp;mins
