Bullhead (Dutch: Rundskop) is a 2011 Belgian drama film written and directed by Michaël R. Roskam and starring Matthias Schoenaerts. It tells the story of the young Limburgish cattle farmer Jacky Vanmarsenille, approached by an unscrupulous veterinarian to make a shady deal with a notorious West-Flemish beef trader. But the murder of a federal policeman, and an unexpected confrontation with a mysterious secret from Jacky's past, set in motion a chain of events with far-reaching consequences. The film is based on the murder of Karel van Noppen.
The film was nominated for an Academy Award in the category of Best Foreign Language Film in 2012, but lost to A Separation. It is mainly in the Limburgish dialect of Dutch.
The film was selected for the panorama section of the 61st Berlin International Film Festival. It premiered in the United States at Fantastic Fest in Austin. Drafthouse Films acquired the rights to distribute the film in the United States where it opened on 17 February 2012 in a limited release.
The film has received generally favourable reviews from critics, currently holding a 82% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 44 reviews, as well as a metascore of 69 on the Metacritic, based on 23 reviews.
While criticizing the film's awkward flow due to its use of flashbacks, Roger Ebert praised the performance from lead actor Matthias Schoenaerts, noting that
"The one excellent aspect of the film is Matthias Schoenaerts' performance. We often follow him walking in a controlled lurch from side to side, as if merely walking is not enough of a challenge for him. We see his eyes, burning with pain.   impresses because of the pain, sadness and rage contained in the title performance by Flemish actor Matthias Schoenaerts, who bulked up for the role (without steroids), and seems ready to burst from his clothes and even his skin."
Bullhead was awarded both the New Authors Audience Award and the New Authors Critic’s Prize for Best Actor (Matthias Schoenaerts) AFI Fest. The film won the AMD-sponsored Next Wave Award at Fantastic Fest. Matthias Schoenaerts won the FIPRESCI Award for best actor at Palm Springs International Film Festival. The jury praised the actor’s "superb portrayal of an innocent and sensitive man trapped in a truculent body." It won the Best Film Award at the Ostend Film Festival, received nine Magritte Award nominations and went on to win the awards for Best Flemish Coproduction, Best Screenplay, Best Actor (for Schoernaerts) and Best Editing. The film also received the André Cavens Award.
Bullhead was selected as the Belgian entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 84th Academy Awards. It was officially nominated in this category on 24 January 2012, but ultimately lost to the Iranian submission A Separation.
A steroid-fueled cattle farmer finds that his decision to do business with the Belgian cattle-hormone mafia could have potentially deadly consequences in this brooding Belgian crime drama that was nominated for Best Foreign Language Film at the 2012 Academy Awards. Jacky Vanmarsenille (Matthias Schoenaerts) makes the biggest mistake of his life when he goes into business with a nefarious meat trader with mob ties. After hearing that a federal agent was murdered while investigating the underworld meat trade and crossing paths with a woman he thought he would never see again, Jacky realizes that his only hope is to delve headlong back into his harrowing past. First-time feature filmmaker Michael R. Roskam directed from his own script. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Bullhead Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 124&nbsp;mins
