R-Point (μ• ν¬μΈνΈ) is a 2004 Korean horror film written and directed by Kong Su-chang and starring Gam Wu-seong and Son Byung-ho. It is set in 1972 Vietnam, during the Vietnam War. However, most of the movie was shot in Cambodia. Bokor Hill Station plays a prominent part of the movie, in this case doubling as a colonial French plantation.
On 07 January 1972, the South Korean base in Nha-Trang, Vietnam, receives a radio transmission from a missing platoon presumed dead. The high-command assigns the veteran and decorated Lieutenant Choi Tae-in to lead a squad with eight other soldiers and rescue the missing soldiers from the R-Point. When they arrive in the location, they have a shooting and defeat a Vietnamese woman with a machine gun in a trench. Later, they find a tombstone telling that one hundred years ago, Chinese killed Vietnamese, dropped them in a lake and built a temple over the place, being a sacred location to the Vietnamese. While chasing the missing soldiers, weird things happen with the rescue team. In the end, only one soldier makes it out alive while the other eight are missing.
Before the film was released, filmmakers conducted various viral marketings to promote the film. The official website, www.rpoint.com, carried several fictional articles such as journal written by an American war correspondent, statements made by various soldiers who witnessed events from the film, radio transmission received by Korean soldiers, internet news links about missing Korean soldiers in Vietnam, and the fictional timeline of R-Point.
2004 Blue Dragon Film Awards
2004 Grand Bell Awards
2004 Korean Film Awards
A mysterious radio signal prompts a troop of South Korean soldiers to set out in search of a missing patrol unit, only to find that the horrors of war aren't limited to the human realm in director Su-Chang Kong's tale of supernatural terror on the battlefield. As the Vietnam War rages, a South Korean army base begins receiving radio contact from a patrol unit that has been missing in action for nearly six months. With resources dwindling and the battle taking its toll on the fatigued troops, the determined but shell-shocked commanding officer leads his unit on a brave rescue mission to the source of the signal - a war-torn parcel of land known only as R-point that is seemingly devoid of human presence. But there is a presence there, and when it finally makes itself known to the weary soldiers, the one-time rescue mission quickly becomes a harrowing struggle for survival against a force more deadly than any war. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 107&nbsp;mins
