A Heavenly Vintage is a film directed and co-written by New Zealand filmmaker Niki Caro. Originally titled "The Vintner's Luck", it is loosely based on the novel The Vintner's Luck by New Zealander Elizabeth Knox and had its international première at the Toronto International Film Festival in September 2009. This is the second time Caro has worked with New Zealand actress Keisha Castle-Hughes, who was nominated for an Academy Award at age 13 for her role in Caro's international breakthrough Whale Rider in 2002.
Elizabeth Knox, the writer of the book, was disappointed at the direction the movie took as she felt Niki Caro "took out what the book was actually about", referring to the romantic relationship between Sobran and Xas which was a core aspect of the novel and was very noticeably toned down in the movie, even though it still hints at it.
Co- writer Joan Scheckel previously collaborated with director Niki Caro on her award-winning film Whale Rider.
The Vintner's Luck premiered as an Official Selection at the 2009 Toronto Film Festival. Since its first screening, it has won multiple awards, including:
The passionate tale of Sobran Jodeau (Jérémie Renier), an ambitious young peasant winemaker and the three loves of his life – his beautiful wife Celeste (Keisha Castle-Hughes), the proudly intellectual baroness Aurora de Valday (Vera Farmiga) and Xas (Gaspard Ulliel), an angel who strikes up an unlikely but enduring friendship that borders on eroticism with him. Under his guidance Sobran is forced to fathom the nature of love and belief and in the process grapples with the sensual, the sacred and the profane – in pursuit of the perfect vintage.
The film was shot in New Zealand, Belgium, and France - including in the medieval castle of Berzé.
The film has received polarized responses since the Toronto Film Festival. Paul Fischer of Dark Horizons says ..."a film about humanity and spirituality, Caro directs this film with an exquisite sense of detail. Gorgeous in all facets of visual detail, "The Vintner’s Luck" is also a fascinating romantic melodrama, and at its core, comprises a cast that is spot on". Peter Brunette of The Hollywood Reporter said "It's difficult to believe that the same director who made the simple and affecting Whale Rider in 2002 ...is responsible for The Vintner's Luck, an overblown work of amazing silliness". Justin Chang, writing in Variety, says "Caro never finds the emotional pulse of the story", but praises the "lyrical widescreen cinematography". Kate Rodger of 3 News says "For me, The Vintner’s Luck was a gorgeous collection of imagery, sound and movement, with moments of intoxicating beauty...". "
A winemaker is coached by a wise spirit in this fantasy set in the early 19th century, based on a novel by Elizabeth Knox. Sobran Jodeau (Jérémie Renier) is a poor but hard-working man who helps the Comte de Vully (Patrice Valota) grow grapes but hopes to someday oversee his own vineyard and make world-class wine. Sobran is also deeply in love with Celeste (Keisha Castle-Hughes), a lovely women whose family has been touched by emotional instability. One night, Sobran is visited by Xas (Gaspard Ulliel), a guardian angel who offers to help him with his dream of becoming a vintner; Xas pledges to visit Sobran one day every year to sample his wine and give him advice. However, Xas warns Sobran that like great art, great wine often is the product of sacrifice and suffering, and with the passage of time Sobran is visited by both kind and cruel fate. Sobran and Celeste are wed, and after the death of the Comte de Vully, his heir, Baroness Aurora de Valday (Vera Farmiga), puts Sobran in charge of the winery. But Sobran's skill alone doesn't produce exceptional wine, and it's not until he's touched by tragedy that he is able to produce a vintage that speaks of a full life. The Vintner's Luck received its world premiere at the 2009 Toronto International Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All The Vintner's Luck Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 75&nbsp;mins
