The Awakening is a 2011 British horror film directed by Nick Murphy, starring Rebecca Hall, Dominic West, and Imelda Staunton.
1921: England. Florence Cathcart (Rebecca Hall) is a published author on supernatural hoaxes who works with the police to expose charlatans and debunk supernatural phenomena, having begun her foray into her profession upon the death of her lover in World War I. Upon a visit from Robert Malory (Dominic West), a teacher from a boarding school with the request to investigate the recent death of a student and how it is related to sightings of a ghost of a child, she travels to the school hoping to explain the sightings and the death. The ghostly sightings are at first thought to be a prank played by one of the boys at the school. While Florence and Robert start developing a mutual attraction, the school is closed for holidays with the only occupants being Robert, Florence, Maud (Imelda Staunton) the housekeeper and Tom, a lonely child, who tells Florence his parents live in India which takes too long for him to travel to. As unexplained supernatural events start to manifest, it is revealed towards the end that Tom is a ghost and is Florence's half brother and Maud's son. Florence and Tom grew up in the house that is now a boarding school. While Florence and Tom were young, their father became mad and killed Florence's mother, Tom and himself while also trying to kill Florence. Florence had blocked these memories of her childhood. Maud, who also sees Tom, explains that Tom is lonely and that he needs his family; Maud poisons herself and Florence, intending for their ghosts to join Tom. Florence, however, tells Tom that she will not be happy if she dies now and that she will always be with Tom. Tom then helps Florence by bringing her medicine to throw up the poison.
There is ambiguity about whether she survives: in the closing scene, the headmaster speaks of her as if she is not there, and only a lonely child (of the kind who could see Tom) acknowledges her. She can be seen by Malory and promises to visit him 'Saturday week' before setting off. Maud and Tom are gone, and she says though she can't see them, they are not forgotten, raising the possibility they are now at peace.
The Awakening was shot on location in the United Kingdom in London, Berwickshire, East Lothian, Lyme Park in Cheshire, and Manderston House in Manderston from July 2010.
The film opened at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 16, 2011 and has been officially released November 11, 2011 in the United Kingdom and Ireland and December 2, 2011 in Italy.
Review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes reports that 60% of critics have given the film a positive review based on 49 reviews, with an average score of 5.510.
A famed author and noted skeptic attempts to debunk a haunting at a prestigious London prep school, and encounters a supernatural force that seems beyond human comprehension in director Nick Murphy's creepy gothic chiller. England, 1921: As the high cost of war takes a heavy toll on the national psyche, many people turn to spiritualism and the supernatural for reassurance that something better awaits us in the beyond. But Florence Cathcart (Rebecca Hall) isn't buying it. A noted academic, Florence favors logic over fantasy, and she's built her career on proving that ghosts don't exist. Meanwhile, at Rockwood Boarding School, the recent death of a young boy has parents uneasy, and students convinced that the boy still wanders their hallowed halls in spectral form. Summoned to Rockwood by Headmaster Robert Mallory (Dominic West), Florence becomes more determined than ever before to reveal the haunting as a hoax. But when the staunch cynic fails to find a rational explanation for the eerie occurrences around the school, her steely resolve is soon overpowered by sheer terror. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Awakening Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 108&nbsp;mins
