Sound of Noise is a 2010 Swedish-French comedy-crime film written and directed by Ola Simonsson and Johannes Stjärne Nilsson. It tells the story of a group of musicians who illegally perform music on objects in the various institutions of a city. The film is a follow-up to the 2001 short film Music for One Apartment and Six Drummers, which was made by the same people and followed the same basic concept. The title comes from the Italian futurist Luigi Russolo's 1913 manifesto The Art of Noises.
A group of four anarchist drummers led by a conductor and a female musician set out to make music with objects that are generally considered non-musical. They plan out a concert with four hilariously titled movements to be played across the city after carefully analyzing what objects can be used to make good music. They begin by playing in a surgery room using a notable TV reporter who has been admitted to the hospital for hemorrhoid surgery. Their next piece is set in a bank where they "hold up" the staff and customers. They then feed banknotes into the shredding machine for a distorted bass sound. The next piece uses bulldozers thumping the ground at the fountain in front of an opera house. For the final crescendo, they strike the fountain knocking it to the ground. The last piece involves them hanging from high tension power cables and playing the suspended cables like violins. All the while, they are pursued by a tone-deaf policeman born into a distinguished musical family who hates the sound of music.
The music was composed for the film by Magnus Börjeson while the story was written. Sound of Noise was initiated by BLISS from France. The film is a coproduction between BLISS and Dfm fiktion. It received ten million kronor from the Swedish Film Institute. The film was shot in CinemaScope and filming took place in Malmö from 28 July to 1 October 2008.
The film premiered on 18 May 2010 in the International Critics' Week of the 63rd Cannes Film Festival. It has been released in Sweden on Christmas Day 2010 through Nordisk Film. Wild Bunch Distribution released it in France on the 29th of December 2010.
indieWire named the film Bonnie and Clyde on Drums.
The New York Times finished its article describing the film as a dry treat - a solid, self-aware cult pleasure.
Alissa Simon in Variety called it a delightful comic cocktail of modern city symphony, police procedural and love story.
Peter Brunette of The Hollywood Reporter wrote that the basic premise of this delightful comedy from Sweden is one of the most imaginative you'll ever see. It's all based on music -- raw, elemental and percussive -- out of which genuine laughs are wrung from beginning to end.
Sound of Noise received the Young Critics Award and the Grand Rail d'Or at the International Critics' Week. As the festival run continued, it won the prize for Best Fantastic Film at Fantastic Fest in Austin. It won the Free Spirit Award and the Audience Award at the 2010 Warsaw International Film Festival. At the Molodist International Film Festival in Kiev, the film received both the award for Best Full-length Film and the Audience Prize. It won a Best Achievement Guldbagge Award for "a virtuous mergence of sound and music".
A group of musical anarchists stage sonic "attacks" in hospitals and banks, using found items as instruments and evading a tone-deaf cop with a burning hatred of harmony. Sanna is the leader of a group that stages impromptu musical performances in public places. Once they have taken their positions and turned on their metronome, there's no stopping the music. Meanwhile, anti-terrorism squad leader Amadeus Warnebring -- a frustrated cop who hails from a family of famed musicians -- vows to take down Sanna's sonic anarchists by whatever means necessary. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 102&nbsp;mins
