Oslo, August 31st (Norwegian: Oslo, 31. august) is a 2011 Norwegian drama film directed by Joachim Trier. It premiered in the Un Certain Regard section at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival. It won the prizes for Best Film and Best Cinematography at the 2011 Stockholm International Film Festival; jury president Whit Stillman described the film as "a perfectly painted portrait of a generation". It was one of three films on the Norwegian shortlist for submissions to the 84th Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film.
Anders is a recovering drug addict in an Oslo rehab clinic. On the 30th of August, he is given a day's leave to attend a job interview in the city center. After visiting his friend Thomas, he proceeds to his appointment. In the interview, he admits to being a drug addict and storms out. He then wanders the streets of Oslo for the rest of the day and night, meeting, and sometimes confronting, people from his past. The film ends the next day, August 31st.
Oslo, August 31st has received widespread critical acclaim from both film critics and audiences. Review aggregrator site Rotten Tomatoes reports that 98% of critics have given the film a positive review, based on 54 reviews with an average rating of 8.210. The general consensus being: "An upfront study of a drug addict confronting his demons, Oslo, August 31st makes this dark journey worthwhile with fantastic directing and equally fantastic acting." Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average score out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, reports the film has a score of 84. Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave the film four out of four stars and said the film is "quietly, profoundly, one of the most observant and sympathetic films I've seen". Ebert went on to name it the ninth best film of the year in his annual list.
A man who can't sort out the wreckage of his life wonders what sort of future he deserves in this drama adapted from a novel by Pierre Drieu La Rochelle. Anders (Anders Danielsen Lie) is a struggling writer from a successful family who stumbled into bad habits and is soon to be released from a treatment center for drug addiction. Describing himself as "a spoiled brat who (messed) up," Anders has pinned his hopes for the future on a job at a magazine in Oslo, and after being discharged he heads into the city. There he meets up with an old friend, Thomas (Hans Olav Brenner), who has turned his back on drug-fueled carousing and now looks after his children; their conversation makes it obvious Anders isn't feeling comfortable on the outside, and his job interview is little short of disastrous. As Anders wanders Oslo and crosses paths with former friends and acquaintances, most of whom don't seem especially happy to see him, he ponders the future that lies before him and contemplates taking his own life. Oslo, August 31st was directed by Joachim Trier, a cousin of noted filmmaker Lars von Trier; the film was an official selection at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival. ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 95&nbsp;mins
