Snowtown, known as "The Snowtown Murders" in the US, is a 2011 Australian film about the Snowtown murders directed by Justin Kurzel and written by Shaun Grant.
In the poor Adelaide suburb of Salisbury North, Jamie (Lucas Pittaway), lives with his distressed mother, Elizabeth (Louise Harris) and his brothers -- including Troy (Anthony Groves), who rapes Jamie. One day his mother's boyfriend takes indecent photographs of the boys. When the police are reluctant to intervene, Elizabeth is contacted by Barry (Richard Green), a gay man who introduces her to John (Daniel Henshall). John, who despises paedophiles and homosexuals, deals with the boyfriend by continually harassing him until he is forced to leave the town. John begins to assume the role of Jamie's father figure.
Jamie finds himself slowly drawn into John's homophobic and violent tendencies, unable to escape because of his charismatic and intimidating dominance. On one occasion he has Jamie shoot his dog. John meanwhile influences the rest of the neighbourhood with his extremely homophobic views, and separates Barry from his younger boyfriend Robert (Aaron Viergever). Only Troy seems to dislike John. Barry soon disappears, leaving behind only a tape saying that he is going to Queensland.
Shortly afterward, Jamie visits his drug-addicted best friend Gavin (Bob Adriaens) with John, who takes a disliking to Gavin. Later one night John and Robert take Jamie into his garden shed and show him the bodies of Barry and Gavin. Distressed, Jamie lashes out at John but is powerless to resist, and remains under his influence. When John learns that Jamie has been abused by Troy, he and Robert torture Troy. Jamie later kills the brutalized Troy in an act of mercy. Now desensitized, Jamie assists John in carrying out several murders. John and his team dump the bodies in the vault of an abandoned bank in the town of Snowtown.
Jamie is later persuaded by John to lure his half-brother, Dave (Beau Gosling), to look at a computer that is for sale. Jamie drives with him to the town, vaguely conscious of what he is doing, and takes Dave into the building, where he is met by John and Robert. Unaware of what is going on, Dave watches Jamie shut the door of the bank. On 20 May 1999, South Australian Police discovered the remains of eight people stored in barrels in the bank vault of Snowtown, and that the following day John Bunting and Robert Wagner were arrested.
Screen Australia announced in March 2010 that they would be funding the film and Film Victoria provided $245,000. The film was produced by Warp Films Australia, a collaboration between Warp Films and distributor Madman Entertainment.
Peter Campbell of Warp Films Australia had to get the remaining suppression orders lifted so the film could be premiered.
Snowtown is Justin Kurzel's first feature length film as director; his short film Bluetongue was shown at the 2005 Cannes Film Festival.
Apart from Daniel Henshall and Richard Greene, all the actors were locals with no acting experience that Kurzel had found in the area where the events of the movie actually occurred with most from Davoren Park. Kurzel himself grew up in the area and felt that using locals would move the film from being a one dimensional horror show to a tragic human story showing what happens when people are disadvantaged. Davoren Park is considered one of the most violent and dysfunctional suburbs in Australia and a place where emergency vehicles fear to go without a police escort. According to Kurzel, far from the "wow, I'm going to be a movie star" attitude that he had expected, he had some difficulty convincing them to take part.
The film premiered at the 2011 Adelaide Film Festival and won the festival's "Audience Award", and was selected as one of seven films from around the world that were shown at International Critics' Week competitions that ran in parallel with the 2011 Cannes Film Festival. At Cannes, the film was awarded with a Special Mention.
The movie is being released in the UK by Revolver Entertainment and IFC Midnight acquired the North America distribution rights.
Snowtown received positive reviews. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes lists an 87% approval rating and sums up the movie as, "It's a bleak and brutal endurance test, but for viewers with the strength and patience to make it to the end, Snowtown will prove an uncommonly powerful viewing experience."
Peter Bradshaw reviewed the film for The Guardian and gave it four stars out of five, saying that Snowtown "is a well made but gruesome and often unwatchably violent film." He concluded by stating that it reminded him of 10 Rillington Place and that while films "like David Fincher's Zodiac, or Jaime Rosales's The Hours of the Day, or Shōhei Imamura's Vengeance Is Mine demystified the killer's macabre criminal career in their various ways; what Snowtown does is create a social-realist horror story showing the killer as parodic paterfamilias."
Channel 9 Entertainment report Richard Wilkins, however, gave the film a rating of 0 stars and stated "I watched this film so you don't have to".
Fiona Williams of SBS awarded the film three-and-a-half stars out of five, commenting that director Kurzel "sidesteps the gore – mostly – to focus instead on the circumstances that enabled the atrocities to occur...It’s a gripping, discomforting watch."
A harrowing account of the true crime story that shocked Australia, Justin Kurzel's Snowtown follows an impressionable teenager as he falls under the spell of a charismatic serial killer and gets hopelessly drawn into a vicious cycle of violence and murder. Single mother Elizabeth Harvey (Louise Harris) lives in a cramped house in the northern suburbs of Adelaide with her four young sons. When Elizabeth's current boyfriend reveals himself to be a pedophile, charismatic newcomer John Bunting (Daniel Henshall) drives him out of the neighborhood while laying on the charm, and in the process he captures the attention of her teenage son Jamie (Lucas Pittaway). But as Jamie gets closer to John, he learns that the amiable stranger's quick smile masks a dark secret. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Snowtown Murders Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 120&nbsp;mins
