Tomboy is a 2011 French drama film written and directed by Céline Sciamma. The story follows a 10-year-old girl, called Laure by her parents, who, after moving with her family to a new neighborhood, dresses as a boy and introduces herself to her new friends as Mickäel. The film opened to positive reviews, with critics praising the directing as well as the performances of the children, particularly Zoé Héran as the film's lead.
The story follows a 10-year-old girl, Laure, who after moving with her family to a new neighborhood, dresses as a boy and introduces herself to her new friends and Lisa (the first friend she made) as Mickael. 'A boy' like any other sufficiently different to attract the attention of Lisa who falls in love. Laure takes advantage of her new identity as if the end of the summer would never reveal her unsettling secret. The film opened to positive reviews, with critics praising the directing as well as the performances of the children, particularly Zoé Héran as the film's lead.
A shorter plot: A 10-year-old girl, settling into her new neighborhood outside Paris, is mistaken for a boy and has to live up to this new identity since it's too late for the mistake to be clarified.
Plot Outline: Laura is 10 years old. Laure is a tomboy. Arrival in a new neighborhood, it is believed to Lisa and her band she is a boy. Truth or Dare? Action. Summer becomes a big playground and Laure becomes Michael, a boy like any other sufficiently different to attract the attention of Lisa who falls in love. Laure takes advantage of her new identity as if the end of the summer would never reveal her unsettling secret.
The film is supposed to explore themes of ambiguous sexuality. WriterDirector Céline Sciamma said of her film "The movie is ambiguous about Mikael's feelings for Lisa. It plays with the confusion. I wanted it to be that way."
The film has earned very positive reviews. Earning 97% certified fresh on Rotten Tomatoes with a consensus saying, "In tune with the emotion and tribulations of childhood, Tomboy is a charming movie that treats its main subject with warmth and heart." Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave the film 3.5 out of 4 stars, commenting that Tomboy is "tender and affectionate."
Tomboy was released on DVD and Blu-ray in the United Kingdom on March 5, 2012  and in the United States on June 5, 2012. 
A little girl's innocent deception quickly snowballs into something that gradually becomes a crucial component of her identity in director Céline Sciamma's tender childhood drama. Ten-year-old Laure and her family have just moved into a new neighborhood. Although the little girl longs to make friends her age, she isn't quite certain how to go about it. Then, one day, Laure meets Lisa, and the two girls seem to hit it off. When Lisa makes the assumption that her new friend is a boy, however, Laure assumes the identity of Mikael, and quietly plays along. Before long, Mikael has made friends with the other children in the neighborhood as well. Meanwhile, the closer Lisa and Mikael become, the more delicate Laure's deception grows. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 82&nbsp;mins
