Shark Bait (The Reef in the UK and North America, Pi's Story in South Korea) is a 2006 computer animated film. The plot revolves around Pi and his attempt to win the heart of Cordelia while dealing with a tiger shark who is terrorizing him and the reef's inhabitants. The film was a commercial failure. It was harshly criticised for borrowing heavily from other films such as DisneyPixar's Finding Nemo, Dreamwork's Shark Tale and Walt Disney's The Little Mermaid (and at one point, a reference to Star Wars and The Karate Kid) and, despite the amount of talented actors and comedians involved in the voice over work, was a box office failure. Despite being an American-South Korean co-production, the movie did not receive a theatrical release in the United States, where it was released direct to DVD in 2007.
A direct-to-DVD sequel, The Reef 2: High Tide was released in 2012.
Pisces, or Pi (Freddie Prinze, Jr.), lives happily with his parents, until a fishing boat scoops them from the sea. Pi's parents manage to help him escape, but cannot escape themselves. Pi is taken by his porpoise friends to live with his aunt Pearl (Fran Drescher) and cousin Dylan (Andy Dick) on an exotic reef. As he tries to settle himself in this new world, the sweet and well-meaning Pi makes some good friends in his new home. When he reaches adulthood Pi falls in love with Cordelia (Evan Rachel Wood), a celebrity fish who has appeared of the front cover of National Geographic Magazine
However, Troy (Donal Logue), the meanest, toughest shark in the ocean, is not only terrorizing everyone in the reef community, but also has his eye set on Cordelia to become his mate. Pi also learns about Nerissa (Rob Schneider), a wise old hermit turtle who lives in the Old Ship Wreck and practices martial arts, leading to rumours that he is a wizard.
When Pi helps Cordelia after she gets a hook in her fin, she invites him to go to a concert with her. Afterwards, they look at the stars and she falls in love with him. An enraged Troy starts abusing Pi worse than ever, until Cordelia makes him a deal: if he leaves Pi alone, she will marry him (which, in this case, is done when someone "accepts someone else's pearl").
When Pi hears of this, he decides he has had enough of Troy's abuse towards him, and asks Nerissa to teach him martial arts to combat Troy. Nerissa initially refuses, but Pi persists and he finally agrees.
After mastering the martial arts, Pi and his friends decide to band together to stop the abuse and terror that has caused fear within the reef's population. After training his friends, Pi leads the charge and they deal with Troy's crew in a final showdown.
When Pi taunts and insults Troy, Troy attacks him. Nerissa tries to help, but is badly injured by Troy's attack. Pi manages to trick Troy into chasing him, and fooled him into swimming into a fisherman's net. Pi is proclaimed a hero, and marries Cordelia.
When bullying shark Troy kidnaps Cordelia, Pi and Junior rally their friends for a daring rescue mission in this spirited sequel featuring the voices of Jamie Kennedy, DOnal Logue, Rob Schneider, and Andy Dick. Pi and Cordelia have just become the proud parents of a fresh-faced fry named Junior when Troy returns to the reed in time for high tide. But just as Pi begins training his friends and neighbors for battle, a newcomer named Ronny shows up claiming that his ideas can save everyone from ending up in Troy's belly. Little do the frightened inhabitants of the reef realize, however, that Ronnie was sent by Troy to spy on them, and distract them from defending their homes. Later, when Troy seizes the opportunity to kidnap Cordelia, the fish of the reef unite to save her, and defeat the razor-toothed villain once and for all. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All The Reef 2: High Tide Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 87&nbsp;mins
