In Darkness (Polish: W ciemności) is a 2011 Polish drama film directed by Agnieszka Holland. Based on true events, the film tells a story of Leopold Socha, a sewer worker in the Nazi-occupied Polish city of Lwów (since 1945 Lviv, Ukraine), who used his knowledge of the city's sewer system to shelter a group of Jews of the Lwów Ghetto during the Shoah in occupied Poland.
Dedicated to Marek Edelman, the film was a Polish-German-Canadian coproduction, with a screenplay by Canadian writer David F. Shamoon.
In Darkness is a dramatization of a factual rescue of Jewish refugees in Nazi-occupied Lwów. For over a year, a Polish Catholic sewer maintenance worker and burglar, Leopold Socha – along with his friend and coworker Szczepek Wróblewski – hid and cared for a group of hunted Polish Jews who had escaped the massacres and deportations during the liquidation of the Lwów Ghetto, at first helping them in exchange for daily payment, but then continuing to do so long after the Jews' money had run out and aiding them had become ever more dangerous.
Historically, the Jewish ghetto had been established in 1941, and the Nazis decided to liquidate it in June 1943. The Russian army took back Lwów in July 1944, by which point Socha's small band made up approximately 10 of the less than 1000 surviving Jews in the city. Socha's and Wróblewski's actions, and those of their wives, would earn them all recognition as Righteous Among the Nations recipients.
In Darkness is based on the book In the Sewers of Lvov (1990) by Robert Marshall. The only living survivor of the group, Krystyna Chiger, has written a memoir of her experience, The Girl in the Green Sweater: A Life in Holocaust's Shadow (2008), which was published too late to be a source.
It was the first full-length film shown at the 23rd Polish Film Festival in America in Chicago on the Opening Night Gala.
As of May 2012, an overwhelming majority of film critics gave the film a positive review (90% "fresh" at Rotten Tomatoes). Its average Metacritic review score is 74100.
Lisa Schwarzbaum of Entertainment Weekly called it "a harrowing nail-biter of a movie". Ella Taylor of NPR said In Darkness "satisfies for the intensity of the performances and for the artful contrasting of life on the teeming streets of Lvov with life and death in the dim, rat-infested sewers", adding that it "is often a thrilling adventure picture — as if Anne Frank had found an Inglourious Basterd to help her make The Great Escape". Ty Burr of The Boston Globe called the film "a harrowing Holocaust tale, but one that speaks to humankind's capacity to endure, to fight on in the face of terrible cruelty", adding that Holland "elicits taut performances from a strong cast". David Denby of The New Yorker called it "the most volatile that Holland has directed. With a distinguished, hardworking cast of German and Polish actors", noting that "honesty is the movie's greatest strength". Todd McCarthy of Hollywood Reporter said this "harrowing, engrossing, claustrophobic and sometimes literally hard to watch&#160;&#160;robust, arduous drama is more ironic and multi-faceted than most such tales and should be well received by the considerable art house audience worldwide partial to the subject matter". Joe Morgenstern of The Wall Street Journal said this "brave epic" film's "suspense, derived from a true story, is excruciating and inspiring in equal measure". A.&#160;O.&#160;Scott of The New York Times called In Darkness "suspenseful, horrifying and at times intensely moving&#160;&#160;touching, warm and dramatically satisfying". Mick LaSalle of San Francisco Chronicle called it "an extraordinary movie, and somehow good art&#160;&#160;a gripping piece of history and also an exploration into the mysteries of the human soul", and gave it "the highest recommendation".
On the other hand, Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times dismissed the film as redundant and inferior to Schindler's List which was "more entertaining" in his view. Michael Atkinson of the Village Voice claimed that "Holland does skirt the ethical entrapment of Schindler's List (over-lionizing the Aryan rescuer)", adding: "It's not fair, but there it is: We've been here before." (Note: Contrary to Atkinson's article, Slavic Poles were actually not classified as Aryans by the Nazis.) David Edelstein of New York Magazine wrote: "In outline, In Darkness is a standard conversion melodrama, but little within those parameters is easy. The darkness lingers into the light."
In Darkness was nominated for the best foreign language film at the 84th&#160;Academy Awards. At the International Valladolid Film Festival (SEMINCI), Agnieszka Holland won the award for best director.
The film also garnered several award nominations at the 32nd&#160;Genie Awards, including best adapted screenplay for Shamoon. As well, alongside the official Canadian nominee Monsieur Lazhar, the film attracted attention in the country for marking the first time in the history of cinema of Canada that had its two films nominated for the best foreign language film Oscar in the same year.
A modest Polish sewer worker becomes a hero after rescuing a group of Jews from certain death during the Holocaust. Robert Wieckiewicz, Agnieszka Grochowska, and Kinga Preis star in this inspirational World War II drama from two-time Academy Award nominee Agnieszka Holland (Bittere Ernte, Europa, Europa). ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 143&nbsp;mins
