Kill List is 2011 British horror film from Ben Wheatley, starring Neil Maskell, Michael Smiley and MyAnna Buring.
When a British soldier (Maskell) returns home from Kiev, he joins an old friend as contract killers. His disturbed past surfaces as he spins out of control during jobs and ominous employers raise the stakes. It was filmed in Sheffield, South Yorkshire in England.
Jay (Neil Maskell) and Gal (Michael Smiley) are former soldiers who have become hitmen since leaving the military. While Gal is laid back, Jay is still suffering from an unspecified disastrous mission in Kiev and, despite the urging of his wife Shel (MyAnna Buring), he has not worked since and they are running out of cash. Shel organises a dinner party to which she invites Gal and his latest girlfriend, a human resources manager called Fiona (Emma Fryer), and during the evening Gal reveals he has a new job for them, which Shel encourages him to take. Meanwhile Fiona goes to the toilet, carves a symbol on the back of the bathroom mirror and takes a tissue that Jay had used to mop up his blood after a shaving accident.
Jay agrees to take the gig and the two meet the shadowy client who has a list of three people he wants killed. To seal the deal, the employer unexpectedly cuts Jay's hand and then his own, leading to the contract being effectively signed in blood. Their first target, a priest, appears to recognise Jay and thanks him just before being killed. The second name on the list turns out to be a maker of child pornography who also thanks Jay before he is beaten to death. While Jay chases down some of the other paedophiles, Gal looks into their files and finds a folder on himself and Jay, including details of their problems in Kiev. Although they do not recognize it, the file includes the symbol that Fiona carved in Jay's mirror. Gal informs Jay that whilst raiding the safe in the home of the second target he took enough money to cover the total sum they would receive for the contract. The pair then decide not to complete the contract and return home. Jay tries to see a doctor about his infected hand, but his regular doctor has been replaced by another man who will only give him cryptic messages.
Jay and Gal return to their client and offer to find replacements to kill the last name on the list. The client refuses, saying that both hitmen and their families will be killed if they do not complete the contract. Shel takes their son Sam to the family's cabin for safekeeping while Jay and Gal go back to work. Staking out the final mark, a Member of Parliament, the pair witness a strange ceremony in the woods, including a human sacrifice. Jay decides to intervene, and the leader of the ceremony presents himself for Jay to execute. The remaining masked cultists chase the hitmen into an underground complex, where Gal is stabbed to death. Emerging from the tunnels, Jay flees to the family cabin and meets with Shel. When he goes outside, he sees that their car's tires have been slashed and lit torches have been placed around the nearby field. Jay attempts to locate their attackers, but gets knocked unconscious. Inside the cabin, Shel arms herself and shoots several invaders.
Jay awakens in the field surrounded by the masked cultists, who strip him and place a mask over his face. He is confronted by his last victim, "The Hunchback," a masked and cloaked person armed with a knife. After a brutal knife fight, Jay triumphs, only to discover that the Hunchback was his wife with Sam strapped to her back. The cultists applaud and remove their masks, revealing their client, Fiona, and the man from the doctor's office. The film ends with Jay being crowned by the cultists.
The film's North American Premiere was 12 March 2011 at SXSW in Austin. Receiving much festival buzz, the film's North American Distribution rights were purchased by IFC Films.
The film has received positive reviews and got a 75% Fresh score on Rotten Tomatoes and 64100 at Metacritic.
Total Film gave the film a five-star review (denoting 'outstanding') and said that as well as being a horror film it was "also a mystery movie, a road movie and a grotesque riff on Arthurian legend, and is influenced as much by John Cassavetes, Alan Clarke and Ken Loach as Witchfinder General, The Wicker Man and The Blood On Satan's Claw" before concluding that "uthentic dialogue, pitch-perfect performances and seductively scuzzy images comprise a film funny and bleak, tender and cruel, serious and 'out-there'. British horror has rarely hit these heights since the mid-'70s." Peter Bradshaw reviewed the film for The Guardian and compared it to The Wicker Man and The Blair Witch Project, but he also said that Kill List "often looks like a film by Lynne Ramsay or even Lucrecia Martel, composed in a dreamily unhurried arthouse-realist style that is concerned to capture texture, mood and moment," concluding that "s far as British horror goes right now, Kill List is pretty much top of the range." Mark Kermode reviewed the DVD release for The Observer and stated that "he end result is one of the most genuinely disturbing films of the year, a ruthless exercise in audience manipulation that will put even the most hardened genre fans through the emotional mangler" and he later named it one of his favourite films of 2011.
However, Chris Tookey of the Daily Mail gave the film two stars out of five, saying that the film was a "frustrating mixture of promising and atrocious."
Kill List received a number of nominations in the 2011 British Independent Film Awards and went on to win one:
Simmering marital tensions and unexpected complications weigh heavily on the conscience of a seasoned contract killer in this dark thriller from Down Terrace director Ben Wheatley. An ex-soldier in desperate need of work, Jay (Neil Maskell) is hosting a dinner party with his wife, Shel (MyAnna Buring), when the conversation with guests Gal (Michael Smiley) and Fiona (Emma Fryer) turns suddenly combative. In the aftermath of the incident, Gal proposes to Jay that they both earn a hearty payday by accepting a few well-timed contract jobs. Meanwhile, as the pair go to work getting a lock on their targets, Jay finds himself increasingly distracted by domestic issues and his growing desire to be a good father. Jay's paternal instincts drive him to violent extremes, however, when he makes a shocking discovery about one of the men on his list. Later, after finding a new tool to get the job done, the details of Jay's latest assignment begin to take on deeply ominous undertones. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Kill List Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 95&nbsp;mins
