The Time That Remains is a 2009 semi-biographical drama film written and directed by Palestinian director Elia Suleiman. The film stars Ali Suliman, Elia Suleiman and Saleh Bakri. It gives an account of the creation of the Israeli state from 1948 to the present. Suleiman participated in the 2009 Cannes Film Festival, as his new film competed in the official selection category. The Time That Remains was also screened at the 2009 Toronto International Film Festival. In November 2009, the film won the Jury Grand Prize (with About Elly) at the Asia Pacific Screen Awards. The film won the Critics Prize of the Argentinian Film Critics Association at Mar del Plata International Film Festival.
In four episodes, Suleiman recounts family stories inspired by his father Fuad's private diaries starting from when he was a resistance fighter in 1948, and his mother’s letters to family members who were forced to leave the country during the same period. In addition, Suleiman also combines his own memories in an attempt to provide a portrait of the daily life of the Palestinians who were labeled "Israeli-Arabs" after they chose to remain in their country and become a minority.
Actor, screenwriter, and director Elia Suleiman presents a handful of autobiographical short stories that offer a witty but thoughtful perspective on the place of Palestinians in Israel (and his own role in the nation) in this comedy drama. Inspired by the journals kept by Suleiman's father, the first episode takes place in 1948, as the Arab resistance movement begins to crumble, though Fuad Suleiman (Saleh Bakri) is determined to keep up the fight. By 1970, Fuad has lost his idealism and believes Palestine is destined to live in Israel's shadow, while his son Elia (Zuhair Abu Hanna) is being punished for calling the United States colonialists before the teacher. A few years later, Elia (Ayman Espanioli) has a brush with more powerful authorities, who attempt to toss him out of Israel on a minor offense. Finally, Elia (Elia Suleiman) returns home to look after his elderly mother (Samar Qudha Tanus) and discovers how little has changed, as many of his old friends have been warming the same barstools since he left. The Time That Remains is Suleiman's third film about Israel's relationship with Palestinians, following Chronicle of a Disappearance and Divine Intervention. ~ Mark Deming, RoviTheatrical Feature Running Time: 109&nbsp;mins
