Let the Bullets Fly (simplified Chinese: 让子弹飞; traditional Chinese: 讓子彈飛; Mandarin Pinyin: Ràng Zǐ Dàn Fēi; Jyutping: Joeng6 Zi2 Daan6 Fei1) is a 2010 action comedy film written and directed by Jiang Wen, based on a story by Ma Shitu, a famous Sichuanese writer. The film is set in Sichuan during the 1920s when the bandit Zhang (Jiang Wen) descends upon a town posing as its new mayor. The film also stars Chow Yun-fat, Carina Lau, Ge You, Chen Kun and Zhou Yun.
The film's script went through over thirty drafts before Jiang Wen was happy with it. Let the Bullets Fly was originally to be released in September 2010 but was pushed back to December. Made in Mandarin and Sichuanese, the film broke several box office records in Mainland China and Hong Kong, and has received critical acclaim, when it was released. Let the Bullets Fly grossed 730 million yuan (US$111 million) in Chinese box office. becoming the highest grossing domestic film in China until it was beaten by Painted Skin: The Resurrection in 2012.
Set in China during the warring 1920s,"Pocky" Zhang Mazi (Jiang Wen) leads a group of bandits (each of whom is numbered rather than named). The gang ambush a government train carrying Ma Bangde (Ge You), who is on his way to Goose Town to assume the position of governor. Ma's train is derailed, killing both his bodyguards and his counselor, Tang (Feng Xiaogang). Ma has no money, having spent it all to buy his position; to avoid being killed by Zhang's bandits he lies to them, claiming that he is actually Counselor Tang and that his wife (Carina Lau) was the dead governor's wife. He tells the bandits that, if they spare him and his wife, he will help Zhang to impersonate Ma and pilfer Goose Town's finances.
At Goose Town, Zhang's appointment is opposed by local mobster Master Huang (Chow Yun Fat), who lives in a fortified citadel. Ma tells Zhang that previous governors would split taxes levied from the town residents with Huang. However, Zhang is not interested in taking money from the poor.
Wu (Jiang Wu), one of Huang's subordinates, severely injures a citizen, and as governor Zhang rules against Wu in the town court. In retaliation, Huang frames Zhang's godson, Six, for theft. Six kills himself to prove his innocence. Zhang vows to destroy Huang, but Ma advises him to use cunning rather than brute force. Huang invites Zhang to a meal at his citadel, and there Huang pretends to have his subordinates killed as a sign of good faith. Not realising the governor is actually the bandit chief, Huang raises a plan to hunt down and kill Zhang Mazi. Zhang pretends to agree to this plan, so long as Huang finances the expedition.
That night, Huang disguises his subordinates as Mazi's bandits and sends them to assassinate Zhang while he is asleep. However, only Ma's wife is killed. In grief, Ma reveals his true identity as governor to Zhang. During the funeral for Ma's wife, Zhang has his bandits kidnap Huang and the heads of Goose Town's two leading families for ransom. They quickly discover they have captured Huang's look-alike. The town raises the ransom money but Zhang refuses to take it, instead returning it to the townsfolk. As they do so, Flora, a young prostitute in Huang's custody, discovers their identity. She is captured but becomes friendly with Master Two and Master Three and later stays on as a bandit, helping them to guard Huang's look-alike. Huang sends his own subordinates, also disguised as bandits, to retrieve the money handed back to the town. A woman comes to find Ma, saying that he seduced her while in Shanxi and he is the father of her son. As compensation, Ma gives them two jewels that Huang had given Zhang.
Huang devises a new plan to kill Zhang Mazi (still unaware that he is not the true governor) by sending out his subordinates to pose as masked bandits. This plan fails, and his men are killed in a shoot-out. Huang has no choice but to supply the money for Zhang's anti-bandit expedition. In the meantime, Huang's steward obtains a portrait of the real Governor Ma. The real Ma tells Huang that Zhang is his nephew and allowed to play governor because he saved Ma from bandits. During the expedition, Huang employs a fake Zhang Mazi to kill Zhang during the hunt, doubling his chances by sending his men with a landmine. Three days later, during the battle with Huang's fake bandits, Master Two is killed. After the fake Zhang Mazi is captured, he offers up two jewels as a way to avoid death. It transpires he killed the woman and Ma's son after Ma gave them the jewels. A distraught Ma tries to leave for Shanxi, but drives his carriage over the landmine and is killed.
Zhang vows revenge and returns to Goose Town for a showdown with Huang. He scatters money to the townsfolk and Huang gathers it up the next day; then Zhang scatters firearms to the townsfolk and prevents Huang from gathering them. Zhang and his bandits put on a show of attacking the citadel, then beheads Huang's look-alike to convince the townsfolk that Huang is dead. The townsfolk are reassured and storm the citadel with their new weapons. Zhang gives Huang a gun with one bullet left for his own suicide. However, a moment later, Huang stands on top of his own citadel and calls out to Zhang. He throws his hat into the air, and shoots it with Zhang's gun. He then walks, killing himself with his own landmine.
Master Three intends to marry Flora and the surviving bandits leave for Shanghai to lead a more peaceful life. They take the train through the mountains, Zhang riding after them.
Director Jiang Wen went over 30 drafts of the film's script. Jiang Wu, stated he was offered the role in the film through a text message from JHe said that he got a text message from his brother, director Jiang Wen. Wen stated that he his brother "never picked any talentless person for his productions. So it is good to be chosen for work in a good team."
Parts of the filming were done in Taishan, China.
Let the Bullets Fly was originally scheduled for a release in September 2010. This release date was nullified as a spokesperson for Emperor Motion Pictures stated that "There is a lot of post-production to be done and it has to be done properly." The film premiered in Beijing on December 6, 2010 with wide-release in Mainland China on December 16. Let the Bullets Fly was released in Hong Kong on January 13, 2011. A Hollywood film studio have bought the rights to create an American remake of Let the Bullets Fly. The film has become the highest grossing Chinese film, beating the record set by Aftershock. Following Avatar, this film is now the second highest grossing film ever released in China.
Let the Bullets Fly had its American premiere at the Tribeca Film Festival in 2011. The festival's co-founder, Martin Scorsese, had a private screening of the film in August 2010 during post-production when he was visiting Beijing with his family.
Let the Bullets Fly's opening midnight screenings have grossed at least one million yuan ($150,000), making the film gain a new midnight opening record for Chinese-language films. The film's opening day gross was $4.5 million (RMB30m), which did not break the opening day record set by Feng Xiaogang's Aftershock. By the weekend, the film's accumulated grossed reached $19.52 million (RMB130.18m) and it became the fastest local film to break the RMB100m mark. Let the Bullets Fly earned a total of 400 million yuan (60 million dollars) in its first 11 days of release.
In China, Let the Bullets Fly has won acclaim for story and dialogue as well as attracting criticism for its violence. John Anderson of Variety describes the film as "an entertaining hot pot of wry political commentary and general mischief" and that "genre fans in particular will find much to revel in, with Jiang being a helmer of sharp commercial instincts and a sage satirical bent." Anderson further praised the film's visual style and composition, states "While a generous portion of Let the Bullets Fly is dedicated to computerized chaos, explosions, and mayhem, the subtle is always in competition with the ostentatious," and Anderson especially points out one lengthy scene involving a conversation between the three main characters "d.p. Zhao Fei's camera virtually floats around them, rotating, making mute commentary and suggesting the camerawork in Hou Hsiao Hsien's Flowers of Shanghai. Its captivating." Maggie Lee of The Hollywood Reporter described the film as "unabashedly entertaining" and though less tailored to film festivals than Wen's other works, the bottom line is that it is a "rollicking Chinese western directed with cinematic gumption."
Film Business Asia gave the film an eight out of ten rating, calling it a "richly entertaining Oriental Western anchored by a well-honed, ironic script and terrific performances." Time Out Hong Kong called the acting "masterclass throughout" while noting that it may take a "native Chinese to fully appreciate." The Global Times gave the film a seven out of ten rating, calling it a "a nicely tense pace and with a compact storyline featuring enough genuine laughs" while stating that the role of Jiang Wen "quickly becomes excessive and over-the-top". The Beijing Review praised the film, saying it had "a great deal more depth to it than the average Hong Kong shoot-'em-up" and that it was as "captivating to listen to as it is to watch". China Daily placed the film on their list of the best ten Chinese films of 2010. Twitch Film praised the film's tone and the script, stating "What is most refreshing about this tried and tested formula is Jiang's decision to play his film for laughs, and the script is littered with pitch-black humour throughout."
Let the Bullets Fly has received numerous awards and nominations, including Best Film and Directing nominations from the Asian Film Awards and the Asia Pacific Screen Awards. Jiang also received the Best Director award from the Hong Kong Film Critics Society.
Two crooks with secrets up their sleeves battle for control of a Chinese town in this action comedy. It's the era of the Chinese warlords in the 1920s, and the new governor of Goosetown (Feng Xiaogang) is taking the train into town with his wife (Carina Lau) and right-hand man Tang (Ge You). However, a handful of bandits led by Pocky Zhang (Jiang Wen) want to capture the train, and the explosion they set proves bigger than they expected and the new governor is killed. Pocky realizes no one in Goosetown has seen the new governor, so he decides to take his place, and the dead governor's wife and Tang are forced to play along. Meanwhile in Goosetown, Huang (Chow Yun-Fat) is a powerful criminal who deals in slaves and opium; he's convinced one of his many enemies will kill him, so he employs a simple-minded local man who looks exactly like him (also played by Chow Yun-Fat) to serve as his decoy. When Pocky arrives in town, he goes out of his way to make friends with his new "constituents," and Huang sees he has a powerful rival for the loyalties of the community. The rivalry between Pocky and Huang escalates into a shooting war, though Huang doesn't know Pocky isn't the real governor and Pocky doesn't realize there's more than one Huang. Let the Bullets Fly was a massive box-office success in China, becoming the top-grossing domestic release of all time upon its release in 2010. ~ Mark Deming, RoviSee All Let the Bullets Fly Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 132&nbsp;mins
