Reuniting the Rubins is a 2010 film starring Timothy Spall, Rhona Mitra, and James Callis. It is directed by Yoav Factor. The majority of the film was shot in Radlett, Hertfordshire, England and South Africa.
The film is a family comedy chronicling a reluctantly Jewish man (Timothy Spall) who tries to re-unite his dysfunctional family in time for the Jewish celebration of Pesach so as to appease his ailing mother Honor Blackman. Although they are all from the same family his estranged children hardly seem like they are from the same planet. He must reunite his son the capitalist James Callis, his daughter the eco-warrior Rhona Mitra, his son the Buddhist Monk, and his last son, a born again Rabbi. 
In September 2011, Monterey Media bought the United States distribution rights from Kaleidoscope Film Distribution.
Reuniting the Rubins was selected to screen at the following festivals

A stressed-out lawyer staves off retirement in order to reunite his estranged children at the behest of his aging, emotionally manipulative mother, and he realizes the importance of never giving up on family even when it seems like you'll never see eye to eye. Lenny (Timothy Spall) is getting ready for the cruise of a lifetime when he learns that his mother (Honor Blackman) has fallen ill, and he rushes to see her in the hospital. All she wants before she dies is to see her grandchildren once again gathered under the same roof. But years of infighting have left them hopelessly at odds, making the chances of a happy reunion slim to none. Nevertheless, Lenny concedes, agreeing to give it his best effort. Unfortunately it's not going to be easy since his children have all gone their separate ways: Danny (James Callis) is a powerful businessman who measures his self-worth by the level of success he's achieved and places little importance on religion, atheist Andie (Rhona Mitra) has chosen to dedicate her life to fighting for human rights in Africa, devout Yona (Hugh O'Conor) is a rabbi and family man, and Buddhist monk Charlie (Asier Newman) has adopted the name "Clarity" in an ongoing quest to achieve inner peace. But as reluctant as his children may be to admit it, the one thing that's plain for everyone to see is that they have more in common than anyone would like to admit. ~ Jason Buchanan, RoviSee All Reuniting the Rubins Trailers and ClipsTheatrical Feature Running Time: 99&nbsp;mins
